          6                    Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          1.2  Algorithms
          Oncewehaveaspeciﬁcation, we need to produce an algorithm to implement
          that speciﬁcation. This algorithm is a precise statement of the computational
          steps taken to produce the results required by the speciﬁcation. An algorithm
          diﬀers from a program in that it is usually not speciﬁed in a programming
          language. In this book, we describealgorithms usinga notation that is precise
          enoughtobeimplementedasaprogramminglanguage,butwhichisdesigned
          to be read by humans.
             Astraightforward approach to solving the selection problem is as follows:
          1. Sort the array in non-decreasing order.
          2. Return the kth element.
          If we already know how to sort, then we have solved our problem; otherwise,
          we must come up with a sorting algorithm. By using sorting to solve the
          selection problem, we say that we have reduced the selection problem to the
          sorting problem.
             Solving a problem by reducing it to one or more simpler problems is the
          essence of the top-down approach to designing algorithms. One advantage to
          thisapproachisthatitallowsustoabstractawaycertaindetailssothatwecan
          focus on the main steps of the algorithm. In this case, we have a selection
          algorithm,butouralgorithmrequiresasortingalgorithmbeforeitcanbefully
          implemented.Thisabstraction facilitates understandingofthealgorithm at a
          high level. Speciﬁcally, if we know what is accomplished by sorting — but not
          necessarily how it is accomplished — then because the selection algorithm
          consists of very little else, we can readily understand what it does.
             When we reduce the selection problem to the sorting problem, we need
          a speciﬁcation for sorting as well. For this problem, the precondition will be
          that A[1..n] is an array of Numbers, where n ∈ N. Our postcondition will be
          that A[1..n] is a permutation of its initial values such that for 1 ≤ i<j≤ n,
          A[i] ≤ A[j] — i.e., that A[1..n] contains its initial values in nondecreasing
          order. Our selection algorithm is given in Figure 1.2. Note that Sort is only
          speciﬁed — its algorithm is not provided.
             LetusnowreﬁnetheSimpleSelectalgorithmofFigure1.2bydesigning
          a sorting algorithm. We will reduce the sorting problem to the problem of
          inserting an element into a sorted array. In order to complete the reduction,
          we need to have a sorted array in which to insert. We have thus returned to
          our original problem. We can break this circularity, however, by using the
          top-down approach in a diﬀerent way. Speciﬁcally, we reduce larger instances
