          20                   Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          data structure with a proof of correctness in mind. Once we have convinced
          ourselves that our solution is correct, we can then apply mathematical
          techniques to analyze its resource usage. Such an analysis gives us insight
          into how useful our solution might be, including cases in which it may or
          maynotbeuseful. This analysis may also point to shortcomings upon which
          we might try to improve.
             The top-down approach is a useful framework for designing correct,
          eﬃcient algorithms. Furthermore, algorithms presented in a top-down fash-
          ion can be more easily understood. Together with the top-down approach,
          techniques such as bottom-up implementation and elimination of tail
          recursion — along with others that we will present later — give us a rich
          collection of tools for algorithm design. We can think of these techniques as
          algorithmic design patterns, as we use each of them in the design of a wide
          variety of algorithms.
             In Chapters 2 and 3, we will provide the foundations for proving
          algorithm correctness and analyzing algorithms, respectively. In Part II, we
          will examine several of the most commonly-used data structures, including
          those that are frequently used by eﬃcient algorithms. In Part III, we examine
          the most common approaches to algorithm design. In Part IV, we will
          study several speciﬁc algorithms to which many other problems can be
          reduced. Finally, in Part V, we will consider a class of problems believed
          to be computationally intractable and introduce some techniques for coping
          with them.
          1.8  Exercises
          Exercise 1.1. We wishto design an algorithm that takes an array A[0..n−1]
          of numbers in nondecreasing order and a number x, and returns the location
          of the ﬁrst occurrence of x in A[0..n − 1], or the location at which x could
          be inserted without violating the ordering if x does not occur in the array.
          Give a formal speciﬁcation for this problem. The algorithm shown in Figure
          1.16 should meet your speciﬁcation.
          Exercise 1.2. Give an iterative algorithm that results from removing the
          tail recursion from the algorithm shown in Figure 1.16. Your algorithm
          should meet the speciﬁcation described in Exercise 1.1.
          Exercise 1.3. Figure 1.17 gives a recursive algorithm for computing the
          dot product of two vectors, represented as arrays. Give a bottom-up
          implementation of this algorithm.
