                                       Proving Algorithm Correctness                           27
            complicates matters only slightly — we must simply apply case analysis.
            However, the addition of recursion and/or loops requires some additional
            machinery, which we will develop over the remainder of this chapter.
            2.2    Handling Recursion
            Let us now consider InsertSort from Figure 1.3 on page 7. To handle the
            if statement, we can consider two cases, depending on whether n>1. In
            case n>1, however, there is a recursive call to InsertSort.Asissuggested
            in Section 1.2, we might simply use the speciﬁcation of Sort just like we
            would for a call to any other algorithm. However, this type of reasoning is
            logically suspect — we are assuming the correctness of InsertSort in order
            to prove the correctness of InsertSort.
                 In order to break this circularity, we use the principle of mathematical
            induction. We will be using this principle throughout this text, so we will now
            take the time to present and prove it. The version we present is a technique
            for proving properties of the natural numbers. The property that we wish
            to prove in this case is that InsertSort(A[1..n]) satisﬁes its speciﬁcation
            for every natural number n. Let us now formally deﬁne what we mean by
            a property of the natural numbers, so that our statement of the induction
            principle will be clear.
            Deﬁnition 2.2. A property of the natural numbers is a mapping
                                           P : N →{true,false};
            i.e., for a natural number n, P(n)iseithertrue or false.
            Theorem 2.3 (Mathematical Induction Principle). Let P(n) be a
            property of the natural numbers. Suppose that every natural number n
            satisﬁes the following Induction Property:
             • whenever P(i) is true for every natural number i<n,P(n) is also true.
            Then P(n) is true for every natural number n.
                 Before we prove this theorem, let us consider how we can use it. Suppose
            we wish to prove a property P(n) for every natural number n. Theorem 2.3
            tells us that it is suﬃcient to prove the Induction Property. We can break
            this proof into two parts:
