                                    Chapter 2
                 Proving Algorithm Correctness
          In Chapter 1, we speciﬁed several problems and presented various algorithms
          for solving these problems. For each algorithm, we argued somewhat
          informally that it met its speciﬁcation. In this chapter, we introduce a
          mathematical foundation for more rigorous proofs of algorithm correctness.
          Such proofs not only give us more conﬁdence in the correctness of our
          algorithms, but also help us to ﬁnd subtle errors. Furthermore, some of the
          tools we introduce here are also used in the context of analyzing algorithm
          performance.
          2.1  The Basics
          First consider the algorithm SimpleSelect, shown in Figure 1.2 on page 7.
          This algorithm is simple enough that ordinarily we would not bother to give
          a formal proof of its correctness; however, such a proof serves to illustrate the
          basic approach. Recall that in order for an algorithm to meet its speciﬁcation,
          it must be the case that whenever the precondition is satisﬁed initially, the
          postcondition is also satisﬁed when the algorithm ﬁnishes.
          Theorem 2.1. SimpleSelect meets the speciﬁcation given in Figure 1.1.
          Proof.  First, we assume that the precondition for SimpleSelect(A[1..n])
          is satisﬁed initially; i.e., we assume that initially A[1..n] is an array of
          numbers, 1 ≤ k ≤ n,andbothk andnarenaturalnumbers.Thisassumption
          immediately implies the precondition for Sort(A[1..n]), namely, that A[1..n]
          is an array of numbers, and that n is a natural number. In order to talk about
          both the initial and ﬁnal values of A without confusion, let us represent the
                            
          ﬁnal value of A by A and use A only to denote its initial value. Because
                                         25
