          48                   Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
             Some algorithms might contain both recursion and iteration. In such
          cases, both techniques should be used. Because the algorithm is recursive,
          its correctness should be shown using induction. In order to complete the
          induction, the loops will need to be handled by proving initialization,
          maintenance, termination, and correctness. In Chapter 4, we will see
          how these techniques can be extended to proving the correctness of data
          structures.
             Though correctness proofs are useful for ﬁnding errors in algorithms
          and for giving us conﬁdence that algorithms are correct, they are also quite
          tedious. On the other hand, if an algorithm is fully speciﬁed and designed in
          a top-down fashion, and if proper loop invariants are provided, working out
          the details of a proof is usually not very hard. For this reason, we will not
          provide many correctness proofs in the remainder of this text, but will leave
          them as exercises. We will instead give top-down designs of algorithms and
          provide invariants for most of the loops contained in them.
          2.8  Exercises
          Exercise 2.1. Induction can be used to prove solutions for summations.
          Use induction to prove each of the following:
             (a) The arithmetic series:
                                         n
                                         n(n+1)
                                           i =    2   .                   (2.1)
                                        i=1
             (b) The geometric series:
                                        n       n+1
                                       xi=x −1,                          (2.2)
                                       i=0       x−1
                for any real x =1.
          Exercise 2.2. Let
                                      ⎧1ifn=0
                                      ⎪
                                      ⎪
                                      ⎨n−1
                                f(n)= 
                                      ⎪
                                      ⎪ f(i)ifn>0.
                                      ⎩i=0              n−1
          Use induction to prove that for all n>0, f(n)=2  .
