                                       Analyzing Algorithms                           83
             Figure 3.4  An algorithm to add two matrices
               We would like to extend the deﬁnitions to mul-       For sets A and B, A ×
           tiple variables in as straightforward a manner as        B denotes the set of all
           possible. For example, we would like for O(f(m,n))       ordered pairs (a,b) such
           to include all functions g : N×N → R≥0 such that for     that a ∈ A and b ∈ B.
           some c ∈ R>0 and n0 ∈ N, g(m,n) ≤ cf(m,n) whenever certain conditions
           hold. The question is what exactly these “certain conditions” should be.
           Should the inequality be required to hold whenever at least one of m or n is
           at least n0? Or should it be required to hold only when both m and n are
           at least n0?
               Suppose ﬁrst that we were to require that the inequality hold whenever
           at least one of m or n is at least n0. Unfortunately, a consequence of such a
           deﬁnition would be that mn+1∈ O(mn). To see why, observe that whatever
           values we choose for c and n0,whenm =0andn ≥ n0, mn+1>cmn.Asa
           result, working with asymptotic notation would become much messier with
           multiple variables than with a single variable.
               On the other hand, only requiring the inequality to hold when both m
           and n are at least n0 also presents problems. Consider, for example, how we
           would analyze the rather silly algorithm shown in Figure 3.5. We can observe
                                                    n
           that the ﬁrst of the inner loops iterates 2 times, and that the second iterates
           in times. However, the ﬁrst loop is only executed when i = 0; hence, when
           both i and n are suﬃciently large, only the second loop is executed. We
           could therefore legitimately conclude that the body of the outer loop runs
           in O(in) time. Unfortunately, this would lead to an incorrect analysis of the
           algorithm because the ﬁrst inner loop will always execute once, assuming m
           is a Nat.
