      118          Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
      parameter list, as in the two-argument constructor in Figure 4.10 (page 129).
      Atypedeclaration applies to a single parameter only, so that in this example,
      Lis of type ConsList, but a is untyped. We interpret a type declaration as
      generating an error if the value passed to that parameter is not nil and does
      not refer to an instance of the declared type.
        As we have already suggested, the elements of a particular data type
      mayhaveoperationsassociated with them. Thus, each instance of the Stack
      type has a Push operation and a Pop operation. For the sake of consistency,
      we will consider that when a constructor is invoked, it belongs to the data
      item that it is constructing. In addition, the elements of a data type may
      have internal functions associated with them. Internal functions are just like
      operations, but with restricted access, as described below.
        In order to control the way in which a data structure can be changed, we
      place the following restrictions on how representation variables and internal
      functions can be accessed:
      • Write access to a representation variable of an instance of data type A is
        given only to the operations, constructors, and internal functions of that
        instance.
      • Read access to a representation variable of an instance of data type A is
        given only to operations, constructors, and internal functions of instances
        of type A.
      • Access to an internal function of an instance of a data type A is given
        only to operations, constructors, and internal functions of that instance.
        These restrictions are severe enough that we will often need to relax
      them. In order to relax either of the ﬁrst two restrictions, we can provide
      accessor operations. Because we frequently need to do this, we will adopt
      someconventions that allow us to avoid cluttering our algorithms with trivial
      code.
      • If we want to provide read access to a variable var in the representation of
        type A,wedeﬁnetheoperationA.Var(), which simply returns var.Using
        this convention, we could have omitted operation SimpleStack.Size()
        from Figure 4.4.
      • If we want to provide write access to var,wedeﬁnetheoperation
        A.SetVar(x), which assigns the value of x to var.
        Explicitly allowing write access does not technically violate security,
      because any changes are made by invoking operations of the data structure.
      What can be problematic is allowing read access. For example, suppose we
