           116                     Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
           Maintenance:Supposethestructuralinvariant holds priorto the execution
           of an operation. We will only consider the operation Push(a); proofs for the
           other two operations are left as an exercise.
               The size of elements is not changed by this operation. The value of size
           is only changed if it is strictly less than the size of elements.Inthiscase,
           because it is incremented by 1, the value of size will remain nonnegative,
           but will not exceed the size of elements. The structural invariant therefore
           holds after this operation completes.
           Security: Follows from Lemma 4.1.
           Termination: Because there are no loops or recursive calls, all constructors
           and operations terminate.
           Correctness: Suppose the structural invariant holds prior to the execution
           of an operation. We will only consider the operation Push(a); proofs for the
           other two operations are left as an exercise.
               Suppose the precondition holds, i.e., that the number of elements in
           the stack is strictly less than the stack’s capacity. Because we interpret the
           size of elements to be the stack’s capacity and the value of size to be the
           number of elements in the stack, it follows that size < SizeOf(elements).
           The if condition is therefore true. size is therefore incremented by 1, which
           we interpret as increasing the number of elements on the stack by 1. a is
           then assigned to elements[size], which we interpret as the last element of the
           represented sequence. The postcondition is therefore met.                
               As the above proof illustrates, initialization, maintenance, termination,
           and correctness can be shown using the techniques introduced in Chapter 2,
           although the speciﬁc statements to be shown are somewhat diﬀerent. Proving
           security, on the other hand, not only uses diﬀerent techniques, it also requires
           a more detailed speciﬁcation of the underlying computational model that
           we are assuming. We have chosen a model that is reasonably simple and
           consistent, and which may beimplemented easily in avariety of programming
           languages. In what follows, we will give its details.
               One characteristic of our model involves the way in which data items
           are associated with variables. With each data item, there is a reference that
           uniquely identiﬁes it (i.e., two distinct references may not identify the same
           data item). Furthermore, a reference may not itself be a data item; i.e., a
           reference may not refer to another reference. It is the reference, not the data
           item itself, that will be stored in a variable. We do not specify anything
