                                    Basic Techniques for Data Structures                        117
             else regarding the reference, but often a reference will be implemented as
             the address in memory at which the data item resides. However, we will
             assume that a constant like the integer 3 also has a reference. In this case
             the reference may simply be the binary encoding of 3.
                 Such a distinction between a data constant and its reference may seem
             artiﬁcial, but it allows for a uniform treatment of variables and data. Thus,
             whenvariable assignments are made, the reference to the assigned data item
             is stored in the modiﬁed variable. Likewise, when formal parameters take
             their values from actual parameters, the references are copied from the actual
             parameters to the formal parameters.
                 Given the distinction between a data item and its reference, we can now
             deﬁne more precisely the state of a SimpleStack. It must ﬁrst include the
             values of the reference variables, namely size (a reference to an integer) and
             elements (a reference to an array). Because the interpretation uses the values
             of elements[1..size], these values, which are references to arbitrary data items,
             are also part of the state. However, the values of the data items to which
             the references in elements[1..size] refer are not included in the state. Thus,
             if elements[size] contains a reference to an array A, that reference is a part
             of the state of the stack, but the contents of A are not. In particular, if the
             value stored in elements[size] changes, then the stack contents change, but
             if the contents of A change, the stack contents do not change — A is still
             the item at the top of the stack.
                 Our model uses a simple hierarchical type system. Each implementation
             has a unique type. This type may be a subtype of one or more interfaces (i.e.,
             ADTs) that it implements. Thus, if an implementation A implements ADTs
             BandC,thenanyinstance of type A also belongs to types B and C.Wedo
             not allow implementations to be subtypes of other implementations, so our
             model includes no inheritance. Our algorithms will not always specify the
             type of a data item if its type is irrelevant to the essence of the algorithm.
             For example, we have not speciﬁed the type of the parameter a for the
             Stack.Push operation in Figure 4.4 because we do not care what kind of
             data is stored in the stack.
                 Whenthedatatypeof a parameter is important, we can specify it in the
             precondition, as we have done for the constructor in Figure 4.4. Unless we
             explicitly state otherwise, when we state in a precondition that a variable
             refers to an item of some particular type, we mean that this variable must
             be non-nil. Note, however, that a precondition does not aﬀect the execution
             of the code. When it is important that the type actually be checked (e.g., for
             maintaining a structural invariant), we will attach a type declaration in the
