                                    Basic Techniques for Data Structures                        125
             The total number of iterations is therefore at most
                      lg(n−1)−lgk          lg(n−1)−lgk
                            i                     i
                                    2 k = k                2
                           i=0                    i=0
                                               lg(n−1)−lgk+1
                                        =k(2                    −1)              by (2.2)
                                              lg(n−1)−lgk+1
                                        ≤k2
                                              lg(n−1)+1
                                        = k2
                                                 lgk
                                                2
                                        =2(n−1).
             Because each loop iteration requires Θ(1) time, the time required for all
             loop iterations is in O(n). Combining this result with the earlier analysis
             that ignored the loop iterations, we see that the entire sequence runs in
             Θ(n)time.
                 Now to complete the amortized analysis, we must average the total
             running time over the n operations in the sequence. By Exercise 3.9 on page
             98, if f(n) ∈ Θ(n), then f(n)/n ∈ Θ(1). Therefore, the worst-case amortized
             time for the stack operations is in Θ(1). We conclude that, although an
             individual Push operation may be expensive, the expandable array yields
             a stack that performs well on any sequence of operations starting from an
             initially empty stack.
             4.4    The CONSLIST ADT
             Onthis textbook’s web site is a search tree viewer that allows users to insert
             and remove strings from various kinds of search trees (see Chapter 6) and
             to view the results. Included are “Back” and “Forward” buttons that allow
             the user to step through the history of the trees created. Two stacks are
             used, one to store the history, and one to store the “future” after the user
             has stepped back into the history. Also included is a “Clone” button, which
             causes an identical window to be created, with identical history and future.
             This new window can be manipulated independently from the ﬁrst. In order
             to accomplish this independence, the two stacks must be cloned.
                 Let us consider how we might clone an ExpandableArrayStack.In
             order to simplify the discussion, we will restrict our attention to shallow
             cloning. Shallow cloning consists of cloning only the state of the structure,
             and not the items contained in the structure. Thus, if a data item is
             stored in a stack which is then cloned, any subsequent changes to that
