                                    Basic Techniques for Data Structures                        139
             if we subtract 1 from the number of 1s in value, we obtain a valid potential
             function.
                 Let us now analyze the amortized cost of Increment relative to this
             potential function. Suppose the actual cost is k (i.e., the loops both iterate
             k times). The change in potential is simply the number of 1s in value after
             the operation, minus the number of 1s in value before the operation (the
             two −1s cancel each other when we subtract). The while loop removes k 1s
             from c.Theif statement adds a 1. The for loop does not change the number
             of 1s. The total change is therefore 1 − k. The amortized cost is then the
             actual cost plus the change in potential, or
                                               k+(1−k)=1.
             Wecantherefore conclude that the amortized running time of the IterBin-
             Counter operations is in O(1).
                 Let us now use this technique to analyze the amortized performance of
             ExpandableArrayStack. We ﬁrst observe that operations which result
             in an error run in Θ(1) time and do not change the state of the structure;
             hence, we can ignore these operations. As we did in Section 4.3, we will
             again amortize the number of loop iterations; i.e., the actual cost of an
             operation will be the number of loop iterations performed by that operation.
             An operation that does not require expanding the array performs no loop
             iterations, and an operation that requires expanding the array performs n
             loop iterations, where n is the size of the stack prior to the operation.
                 We now need an appropriate potential function. We ﬁrst note that the
             Pop operation not only is cheap, but it also improves the state of the stack
             by making more array locations available. We therefore don’t need to focus
             on this operation when looking for a potential function. Instead, we need
             to focus on the Push operation. A Push that does not expand the array is
             inexpensive, but degrades the future performance by reducing the number of
             available array locations. We therefore want the potential function to increase
             by at most a constant in this case. A Push that requires an array expansion
             is expensive — requiring n iterations — but improves the performance of
             the structure by creating additional array locations. We want the potential
             function to decrease by roughly n in this case.
                 We mentioned earlier that we wanted the potential function to be a
             measure of how full the array is. Perhaps the most natural measure is n/k,
             where n is the number of elements in the stack and k is the size of the array.
             This function is 0 when n is 0 and is always nonnegative. Furthermore,
             because n ≤ k, n/k never exceeds 1; hence, no operation can increase this
