          134                    Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
              As we assumed our potential gasoline cost to be initially 0, so also we
          require that Φ maps the initial state (usually an empty data structure) to 0.
          Each operation, by changing the state of the data structure, also changes the
          value of Φ. An increase in Φ corresponds to using gasoline, whereas a decrease
          in Φ correspondsto addinggasoline to the tank (though not necessarily ﬁlling
          it, as Φ might not reach 0). Thus, for ExpandableArrayStack,wewould
          want the potential function to increase when a Push that does not expand
          the array is performed, but to decrease when either a Pop or a Push that
          expands the array is performed.
              Let σ denote the state of a data structure prior to some operation, and
          let σ denote the state of that structure following the operation. We then
          deﬁne the change in Φ to be Φ(σ)−Φ(σ). We further deﬁne the amortized
          cost of the operation relative to Φ to be the actual cost plus the change in Φ.
              Theabovedeﬁneswhatapotential function is and suggests how it might
          be used to perform amortized analysis. It does not, however, tell us precisely
          how we can obtain a potential function. We will address this issue in detail
          shortly; for now however, we will show that an amortized analysis using any
          valid potential function will give a true upper bound on amortized cost. The
          proof is essentially the same argument that we gave justifying our use of the
          potential gasoline cost for amortized analysis.
          Theorem 4.5. Let Φ be a valid potential function for some data structure;
          i.e., if σ0 is the initial state of the structure, then Φ(σ0)=0, and if σ is any
          state of the structure, then Φ(σ) ≥ 0. Then for any sequence of operations
          from the initial state σ0, the sum of the amortized costs of the operations
          relative to Φ is at least the sum of the actual costs of the operations.
          Proof.    Let o ,...,o  be a sequence of operations from σ ,andletσ be
                         1     m                                   0          i
          the state of the data structure after operation oi has been performed. Also,
          let c be the actual cost of o appliedtostateσ   .Then
               i                     i                 i−1
                   m                          m       m         m−1
                                                              
                      (c +Φ(σ )−Φ(σ      )) =    c +     Φ(σ )−     Φ(σ )
                       i      i       i−1         i         i           i
                   i=1                        i=1    i=1         i=0
                                              m
                                           =c +Φ(σ )−Φ(σ )
                                                  i      m       0
                                              i=1
                                              m
                                           ≥c,
                                                  i
                                              i=1
          because Φ(σm) ≥ 0andΦ(σ0)=0.                                          
