      144          Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
      This can happen if a large number of elements are pushed onto the stack,
      then most are removed. One solution is to modify the Pop operation so that
      if the number of elements drops below half the size of the array, then we copy
      the elements to a new array of half the size. Give a convincing argument that
      this solution would not result in O(1) amortized running time.
      Exercise 4.10. Analternative to the solution sketched in the above exercise
      is to reduce the size of the array by half whenever it becomes less than 1/4
      full, but is still non-empty.
        a. Give a modiﬁed Pop operation to implement this idea.
       * b. Usingthe technique of Section 4.3, show that the stack operations have
         an amortized running time in O(1) when this scheme is used. You may
         assume that the array is initially of size 4.
      ** c. Repeat the above analysis using a potential function. [Hint: Your
         potential function will need to increase as the size of the array diverges
         from 2n,wheren is the number of elements in the stack.]
      Exercise 4.11. Aqueue is similar to a stack, but it provides ﬁrst in ﬁrst out
      (FIFO) access to the data items. Instead of the operations Push and Pop,
      it has operations Enqueue and Dequeue — Enqueue adds an item to the
      end of the sequence, and Dequeue removes the item from the beginning of
      the sequence.
      a. Give an ADT for a queue.
      b. Using the linked list design pattern, give an implementation of your ADT
        for which all operations run in Θ(1) time.
      c. Prove that your implementation meets its speciﬁcation.
      Exercise 4.12. A certain data structure contains operations that each
      consists of a sequence of zero or more Pops from a stack, followed by a
      single Push. The stack is initially empty, and no Pop is attempted when
      the stack is empty.
      a. Prove that in any sequence of n operations on an initialized structure,
        there are at most 2n stack operations (i.e., Pushes and Pops).
      b. Use a simple potential function to show that the amortized number of
        stack operations is bounded by a constant.
      Exercise 4.13. A String, as speciﬁed in Figure 4.17, represents a ﬁnite
      sequence of Chars, or characters.
      a. Give an implementation of String for which
