                                         Priority Queues                            183
           new leaf and shifting elements downward one level until we reach a location
           where the new element will ﬁt. This is where having a sentinel element is
           convenient — we know we will eventually ﬁnd some element whose key is at
           least as large as that of x. The resulting algorithm is shown in Figure 5.16.
           We assume that Expand(A) returns an array of twice the size of A,with
           the elements of A copied to the ﬁrst half of the returned array.
               The RemoveMax operation is a bit more diﬃcult. We need to remove
           the root because it contains the element with maximum priority, but in order
           to preserve the proper shape of the heap, we need to remove a speciﬁc leaf.
           Wetherefore ﬁrst save the value of the root, then remove the proper leaf. We
           need to form a new heap by replacing the root with the removed leaf. In order
           to accomplish this, we use the MakeHeap algorithm shown in Figure 5.17.
           For ease of presentation, we assume t is formed with BinaryTreeNodes,
           rather than with an array. If the key of x is at least as large as the keys of
           the roots of all children of t, we can simply replace the root of t with x,and
           we are ﬁnished. Otherwise, we need to move the root of the child with larger
           key to the root of t and make a heap from this child and x. This is just a
           smaller instance of the original problem.
               We can simplify MakeHeap somewhat when we use it with a binary
           heap. First, we observe that once we have determined that at least one child
           is nonempty, we can conclude that the left child must be nonempty. We also
           observe that the reduction is a transformation to a smaller instance; i.e.,
            Figure 5.16   The BinaryHeap.Put operation
