                       Chapter 6
          Storage/Retrieval I: Ordered Keys
      In this chapter, we begin an examination of data structures for general
      storage and retrieval. We will assume that with each data item is associated
      a key that uniquely identiﬁes the data item. An example of this kind of key
      might be a bank account number. Thus, if we provide a bank’s database with
      a customer’s account number, we should be able to retrieve that customer’s
      account information.
        WewillletKeydenotethetypetowhichthekeysbelong.Wewillassume
      that, even though the Key may not be a numeric type, it is still possible
      to sort elements of this type using a comparison operator ≤.Moreover,we
      assume that we need an eﬃcient way to obtain data items in order of their
      keys. In the next chapter, we will examine data structures that do not require
      these two assumptions.
        In order to facilitate arbitrary processing of all of the items in the data
      structure, we provide the Visitor interface, shown in Figure 6.1. We can
      then deﬁne an implementation of Visitor so that its Visit() operation
      does whatever processing we wish on a data item. (The use of this interface
      is known as the visitor pattern.)
        We then deﬁne a Dictionary as a ﬁnite set of data items, each
      having a unique key of type Key, together with the operations shown
      in Figure 6.2. In the next chapter, we will examine implementations of
      this ADT. In this chapter, we will explore several implementations of the
      OrderedDictionary ADT, which is the extension of the Dictionary
      ADTobtained by adding the interface shown in Figure 6.3.
      Example 6.1. Suppose we would like to print all of the data items in an
      instance of OrderedDictionary in order of keys. We can accomplish this
      by implementing Visitor so that its Visit operation prints its argument.
                          197
