                                      Storage/Retrieval I: Ordered Keys                          203
             than any key in the left child of t; hence, moving it to the root of t maintains
             the BST structure.
                 Wecan ﬁnd the smallest key in a nonempty BST by ﬁrst looking at the
             left child of the root. If it is empty, then the root contains the smallest key.
             Otherwise, the smallest key is in the left child. This is a transformation,
             and so can be implemented using a loop. The complete implementation of
             Remove is shown in Figure 6.7. Figure 6.8 shows the result of deleting 54
             from the BST shown in Figure 6.5. Speciﬁcally, because 54 has two children,
             it is replaced by the smallest key (64) in its right child, and 64 is replaced
             by its right child (71).
                 The VisitInOrder operation requires us to apply v.Visit to each data
             item in the BST, in order of keys. If the BST is empty, then there is
             nothing to do. Otherwise, we must visit all of the data items in the left
             child prior to visiting the root, then we must visit all of the data items in
             the right child. Because the left and right children are themselves BSTs,
             they comprise smaller instances of this problem. Applying the top-down
             approach in a straightforward way, we obtain the recursive internal function
             TraverseInOrdershowninFigure6.7.
                 The above algorithm implemented by TraverseInOrder is known as
             aninorder traversal. Inorder traversal applies strictly to binary trees, but two
             other traversals apply to rooted trees in general. A preorder traversal visits
             the root prior to recursively visiting all of its children, whereas a postorder
             traversal visits the root after recursively visiting all of its children.
                 Let us now analyze the running time of Find.Letn be the number
             of data items in the BST. Clearly, the time required outside the loop and
             the time for a single iteration of the loop are each in Θ(1). We therefore
             need to analyze the worst-case number of iterations of the loop. Initially, t
             refers to a BST with n nodes. A single iteration has the eﬀect of resetting t
             to refer to one of its children. In the worst case, this child may contain all
             nodes except the root. Thus, in the worst case, the loop may iterate n times.
             This can happen, for example, if all left children are empty, so that elements
             refers to a BST that consists of a single chain of nodes going to the right
             (see Figure 6.9). The worst-case running time is therefore in Θ(n).
             Example 6.2. Suppose we build a BSTDictionary by inserting n items
             with integer keys 1,2,...,n, in that order. As each key is inserted, it is
             larger than any key already in the BST. It is therefore inserted to the right
             of every key already in the BST. The result is shown in Figure 6.9. It is
             easily seen that to insert key i requires Θ(i) time. The total time to build
             the BSTDictionary is therefore in Θ(n2), by Theorem 3.31.
