           208                     Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
            Figure 6.10   AnAVLtree
               The balance criterion that we choose is that in any subtree, the heights
           of the two children diﬀer by at most 1. For the purpose of this deﬁnition, we
           consider an empty tree to have height −1, or one less than the height of a tree
           containing a single node. A binary search tree obeying this balance criterion
           is known as an AVL tree; “AVL” stands for the names of its inventors,
           Adel’son-Vel’ski˘ı and Landis.
               Figure 6.10 shows an AVL tree of height 4 containing integer keys. Note
           that its balance is not perfect – it is not hard to construct a binary tree of
           height 3 with even more nodes. Nevertheless, the children of each nonempty
           subtree have heights diﬀering by at most 1, so it is an AVL tree.
               Before we begin designing an AVL tree implementation of Ordered-
           Dictionary, let us ﬁrst derive an upper bound on the height of an AVL
           tree with n nodes. We will not derive this bound directly. Instead, we will
           ﬁrst derive a lower bound on the number of nodes in an AVL tree of height
           h. We will then transform this lower bound into our desired upper bound.
               Consider an AVL tree with height h having a minimum number of
           nodes. By deﬁnition, both children of a nonempty AVL tree must also be
           AVLtrees. By deﬁnition of the height of a tree, at least one child must have
           height h−1. By deﬁnition of an AVL tree, the other child must have height
           at least h − 2. In order to minimize the number of nodes in this child, its
           height must be exactly h−2, provided h ≥ 1. Thus, the two children are AVL
           trees of heights h − 1andh−2, each having a minimum number of nodes.
               Theabove discussion suggests a recurrence giving the minimum number
           of nodes in an AVL tree of height h.Letg(h) give this number. Then for
