        230               Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
           The partial implementation shown in Figure 6.25 does not explicitly
        handle the case in which the level of a new node exceeds the level of start
        and end. In what follows, we will assume that these arrays are expanded as
        needed using the expandable array design pattern. Later, we will argue that
        for all practical purposes, a ﬁxed-sized array can be used. In the meantime,
        we note that the time needed to expand the array is proportional to the
        number of iterations of the while loop in Put, so we need not amortize
        this cost.
           We will devote the remainder of this section to analyzing the expected
        running time of Put. This analysis is rather involved, but it uses some
        important new tools for analyzing expected running times. Furthermore,
        much of this analysis can be applied directly to the analyses of Get
        and Remove; we therefore leave these analyses as exercises. In view of
        the sometimes counter-intuitive nature of expected values, we will proceed
        with care.
           We will partition the algorithm into ﬁve parts:
        • the while loop;
        • the call to Find;
        • the construction of a new SkipListNode;
        • the for loop; and
        • the remainder of the algorithm for the case in which x = nil.
        At this point, let us observe that a worst-case input must have x = nil and k
        as a new key, not already in the set. On any such input, the overall running
        time is the sum of the running times of the above ﬁve parts. By the linearity
        of expectation, the expected running time of the algorithm on a worst-case
        input is therefore the sum of the expected running times of these ﬁve parts
        on a worst-case input.
           Webeginbyanalyzingthewhileloop.Wedeﬁnethediscreteprobability
        space Seq to be the set of all ﬁnite sequences of ﬂips containing zero or more
        heads, followed by exactly one tails. Note that for each positive integer i,there
        is exactly one sequence in Seq with length i; hence, Seq is countable. As we
        have already argued, the probability of achieving a sequence of length i is
         −i
        2 . In order to conclude that Seq is a discrete probability space, we must
        show that
                                ∞
                               −i
                                  2  =1.
                               i=1
        This fact follows from the following theorem, using c =2anda = −1.
