                                    Storage/Retrieval II: Unordered Keys                        253
                 The proof of the above theorem is simply the observation that if it were
             not true — i.e., if h maps at most n −1elementstoeachi — then the size
             of U could be at most m(n−1). Though this result looks bad, what it tells
             us is that we really want h to produce a random distribution of the keys so
             that the list lengths are more evenly distributed throughout the table.
                 For the remainder of this section, therefore, we will assume that the
             key distribution is modeled by a discrete probability space hashDist.The
             elementary events in hashDist are the same as those in the probability
             distribution deﬁned above: all n-tuples of natural numbers less than m.
             Again, the n positions in the tuple correspond to n keys, and their values
             give their indices in the hash table. Regarding probabilities, however, we
             will make a weaker assumption, namely, the probability that any two given
             distinct positions are equal is at most ,where0<<1. Our earlier
             probability space satisﬁes this property for  =1/m, but we will see in
             Sections 7.4 and 7.5 that other spaces do as well.
                 In what follows, we will analyze the expected length of the ConsList
             searched for an arbitrary key, assuming a distribution modeled by hashDist.
             In the next section we will show how to deﬁne deterministic hash functions
             that approximate this distribution well enough to work very well in practice.
             Then in Sections 7.4 and 7.5, we will show how to guarantee this behavior
             using randomization.
                 For a given search in the hash table, suppose there are a total of n keys
             in the table together with the key for which we are searching. Thus, if the
             given key is in the hash table, there are n keys in the hash table; otherwise,
             there are n − 1. We will use hashDist to model the distribution of these n
             keys, where the nth key is the one for which we are searching. Let len be the
             discrete random variable giving the number of positions equal to position n in
             a given element of hashDist. Then if the given key is in the hash table, E[len]
             gives the expected length of the ConsList searched; otherwise, E[len] − 1
             gives this expected length.
                 We can express len as the sum of indicator random variables as follows:
                                                     n
                                             len = I(i =i ),
                                                           j    n
                                                    j=1
             where i denotes position j of an elementary event. Applying linearity of
                     j
             expectation, we have
                                                     n
                                         E[len]=E[I(i =i )]
                                                              j     n
                                                    j=1
