                                    Storage/Retrieval II: Unordered Keys                        259
                 One drawback to the Put operation as shown in Figure 7.6, is that
             when rehashing is performed, all of the hash values must be recomputed
             from scratch. When the division method is used on long keys, this can lead
             to a signiﬁcant amount of computation.
                 An improvement is to use a combination of two hash functions. The
             ﬁrst hash function produces an index in a range that may be too large
             to be used as a table size, but which is small enough to ﬁt into a single
             machine word. This ﬁrst hash function is called a compression map.The
             second hash function is then applied to the result of the compression map
             to produce an index into the actual table. Because the compression map
             generates an index that will ﬁt into a single machine word, the computation
             of the hash table index from the compression map index can be done quickly;
             for example the division method would consist of a single mod operation.
             Thus, if we save the result of the compression map with the element we are
             storing, we can perform rehashing by applying a new hash function to the
             stored compression map index. We leave the implementation details of such
             aschemeasanexercise.
                 The division method could be used for both of the hash functions
             in such a scheme. However, if the modulus is near the maximum value
             that can be stored in a single machine word, double-word arithmetic is
             required. An alternative that avoids double-word arithmetic for computing
             the compression map is polynomial hashing.
                 In order to motivate polynomial hashing, let’s consider what happens
             when we pack four bytes, k ,k ,k ,andk , into a 4-byte word. If we wish
                                             1  2   3        4
             to retain all of the information, we might produce the value
                                             3          2
                                       k 256 +k 256 +k 256+k .
                                        1          2          3        4
             Polynomial hashing generalizes this technique by producing, for a given key
             k ,...,k,
               1       l
                                            	 l         

                                               l−i               w
                                                  k r      mod2 ,
                                                   i
                                              i=1
             wherewisthenumberofbitsinamachineword,excludinganysignbit.The
                           w
             ﬁnal “mod 2 ” describes the eﬀect of overﬂow in a w-bit unsigned integer.
             Thus, if an unsigned integer is used, this operation need not be explicitly
             performed.
