        280             Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          Thus,if m ∈ Θ(n), the expected number of locations in the primary hash
        table and all of the secondary hash tables is in Θ(n). In particular, if m ≥ n,
        then E[sumsq] ≤ (c+1)n. It turns out that the value of m that minimizes
                           cn(n−1) +n+m,
                              m
        is roughly n (see Exercise 7.17); hence, we will construct our primary hash
        function by passing n to constructor for an appropriate implementation of
        HashFunction.
          Of course, we could be unlucky in selecting a primary hash function, so
        that the number of secondary locations is much larger than what we expect.
        For example, if it happens that all keys hash to the same location, then a
        single secondary hash table with at least n2 locations will be used. In order
        to guarantee linear space usage in the worst case, we therefore need to select
        primary hash functions repeatedly until we get one that yields a reasonable
        total space usage. Because the space usage is linear in sumsq, we don’t need
        to construct the actual secondary hash tables in order to determine whether
        the space usage is reasonable — we can instead simply compute sumsq.We
        should therefore determine some maximum acceptable value for sumsq.
          In order to ensure a reasonable probability of success, we don’t want
        this maximum value to be too small. From Markov’s Inequality (5.3), the
        probability that a discrete random variable is at least twice its expected
        value is at most 1/2, provided its expected value is strictly positive. Based
        on (7.6) above, because we will be using a primary table size of at least
        n, it makes sense to use 2(c +1)n as the maximum allowable value for
        sumsq. Furthermore, our derivations have assumed that c<2; hence, we
        can simplify the maximum allowable value to 6n. By using this maximum,
        wewouldexpecttoselectnomorethan2primaryhashfunctions,onaverage,
        and still guarantee linear space usage.
          We represent an ImmutableDictionary with the following variables:
        • table[0..m − 1]: an array of (possibly nil) arrays of (possibly nil) Keyed
         elements;
        • hash:aHashFunction;
        • functions[0..m −1]: an array of (possibly nil) HashFunctions; and
        • size: a readable Nat.
          Our structural invariant is that:
        • thesizeofhash is the number of locations m in table;
        • for 0 ≤ i<m, table[i]isnil iﬀ functions[i]isnil;
