                                    Storage/Retrieval II: Unordered Keys                        283
                 Thus, for H2 , the constructor runs in Θ(n) expected time, and for
                               p,m
             H4     , the constructor runs in Θ(nl) expected time. It is not hard to show
               p,l,m
             that the constructor runs in Θ(nl) expected time for H1           as well; the details
                                                                           l,m
             are left as an exercise.
                 It is easily seen that the space required by the ImmutableDictionary
             is in Θ(n) in the worst case. However, the hidden constants can be rather
             large. Speciﬁcally, the primary hash table can contain nearly 3n locations,
             and the secondary hash tables can contain a total of nearly 18n locations.
             As a result, nearly 21n array locations can be used to store n data items.
             However, observe that the constructor for the family H1           will return a hash
                                                                           l,m
             function with size less than 2n, and the constructors for the families H2
                                                                                                p,m
             and H4       both return hash functions with size n.Furthermore,ifwewere
                    p,l,m
             to ﬁx a speciﬁc c-universal family of hash functions, we could reduce the
             bound on the ﬁrst repeat loop to 2(c +1)n.
                 Combining the above results, we see that the worst-case total number of
             array locations can be reduced to:
             • 10n for H1 ;
                           l,m
             • 5n for H2 ;or
                         p,m
             • 21n/4forH4         .
                             p,l,m
             Finally, we observe that because E[sumsq] < (c +1)n, the expected total
             number of array locations is no more than
             • 6n for H1 ;
                         l,m
             • 3n for H2 ;or
                         p,m
             • 25n/8forH4         .
                             p,l,m
             These last bounds hold regardless of whether we change the bound on the
             ﬁrst repeat loop.
                 The Get operation is shown in Figure 7.13. It clearly runs in Θ(f(l))
             time, where f(l) is the time needed to compute the hash function on a key
             of length l.
             7.7    Summary
             If keys are natural numbers,we can implement DictionaryusingaVArray
             andthusachieve constant-time accesses in the worst case. However, the space
             usage of a VArray makes it impractical. For this reason, hash tables are
             the preferred implementation in practice. Furthermore, hashing can be done
             for arbitrary types of keys.
