                         Chapter 8
                      Disjoint Sets
       In order to motivate the topic of this chapter, let us consider the following
       problem. We want to design an algorithm to schedule a set of jobs on a
       single server. Each job requires one unit of execution time and has its own
       deadline. We must assign a job with deadline d to some time slot t,where
       1 ≤ t ≤ d. Furthermore, no two jobs can be assigned to the same time slot. If
       we can’t ﬁnd a time slot for some jobs, we simply won’t schedule them. One
       waytoconstructsuchascheduleistoassigneachjobinturntothelatest
       available time slot prior to its deadline, provided there is such a time slot.
       The challenge here is to ﬁnd an eﬃcient way of locating the latest available
       time slot prior to the deadline.
         One way to think about this problem is to partition the time slots into
       disjoint sets — i.e., a collection of sets such that no two sets have any element
       in common. In this case, each set will contain a non-empty range of time slots
       such that the ﬁrst has not been assigned to a job, but all the rest have been
       assigned to jobs. In order to be able to handle the case in which time slot 1
       has been assigned a job, we will also include a time slot 0, which we will
       consider to be always available.
         Suppose, for example, that we have scheduled jobs in time slots 1,2, 5,
       7, and 8. Each set must have a single available time slot, which must be the
       smallest time slot in that set; thus, the elements 0, 3, 4, 6, and all elements
       greater than 8 must bein diﬀerent sets and must each bethe smallest element
       of its set. If 10 is the latest deadline, our disjoint sets will therefore be
       {0,1,2}, {3}, {4,5}, {6,7,8}, {9},and{10}. If we then wish to schedule
       a job with deadline 8, we need to ﬁnd the latest available time slot prior
       to 8. This is simply the ﬁrst time slot in the set containing 8 — namely, 6.
       Thus, in order to ﬁnd this time slot, we need to be able to determine which
       set contains the deadline 8, and what is the ﬁrst time slot in that set.
                            289
