                               Divide and Conquer                  333
         If we set m = n/2, then each of the smaller polynomials has roughly n/2
         terms.
            The product polynomial is now
          pq(x)=p (x)q (x)+xm(p (x)q (x)+p (x)q (x))+x2mp (x)q (x). (10.1)
                 0    0        0   1     1    0         1   1
         To obtain the coeﬃcients of pq, we can ﬁrst compute the four products
         of the smaller polynomials. We can then obtain any given coeﬃcient of pq
         by performing at most two additions. We can therefore obtain all 2n − 1
         coeﬃcients in Θ(n)timeafterthefoursmallerproductsarecomputed.
         Setting m = n/2, we can describe the running time of this divide-and-
         conquer algorithm with the following recurrence:
                              f(n) ∈ 4f(n/2)+Θ(n),              (10.2)
         when n>1 is a power of 2. Unfortunately, applying Theorem 3.35 yields
         f(n) ∈ Θ(n2), which is the same running time as the brute-force calculation.
            This exercise illustrates an important point about the divide-and-
         conquer technique, namely, that the technique by itself does not guarantee
         improved running times. In order for the technique to be eﬀective, it must
         save some work. Sometimes, as with MaxSumDC,thesavings in workcomes
         about naturally. In such cases, it may be rather hard to see how work was
         saved. In other cases, we must be more clever in order to save work.
            Aswesuggested earlier, Theorem 3.35 can give insight into how a divide-
         and-conquer solution might be designed or improved. For example, consider
         recurrence (10.2). Because the third case of Theorem 3.35 applies, we cannot
         obtain a more eﬃcient solution by reducing the Θ(n) overhead outside of the
         recursive calls. In order to improve the performance, we need either to reduce
         the number of recursive calls or decrease the size of the smaller instances.
         We will focus on reducing the number of recursive calls. In the exercises,
         we explore alternative solutions involving decreasing the size of the smaller
         instances.
            Thefollowing observation gives us the insight we need in order to reduce
         the number of recursive calls:
                (p0(x)+p1(x))(q0(x)+q1(x))
                    =p0(x)q0(x)+p0(x)q1(x)+p1(x)q0(x)+p1(x)q1(x).
         Note that all four of the terms in the right-hand-side above appear in the
         product pq (see (10.1)). In order to make this fact useful, however, we need
         to be able to separate out the ﬁrst and last terms. We can do this by
