                                       Divide and Conquer                           343
               Our goal is to construct a deterministic algorithm with worst-case
           runningtime in O(n). As we saw in Section 10.3, quick sort achieves a better
           asymptotic running time if the median is chosen as the pivot. It stands to
           reason that such a choice might be best for the selection algorithm. We men-
           tioned in Section 10.3 that it is possible to ﬁnd the median in O(n)time.The
           waytodothisistouseourlinear-timeselection algorithm toﬁndthen/2nd
           smallest element. However, this doesn’t help us in designing the linear-time
           selection algorithm because the reduction is not to a smaller instance.
               Instead, we need a way to approximate the median well enough so that
           the resulting algorithm runs in O(n) time. Consider the following strategy
           for approximating the median. First, we arrange the n elements into an
           M×n/M array, where M is some ﬁxed odd number. If n is not evenly
           divisible by M, we will have up to M − 1 elements that will not ﬁt in
           the array — we will ignore these elements for now. Suppose we sort each
           column in nondecreasing order. Further suppose that we order the columns
           (keeping each column intact) so that the middle row is in nondecreasing
           order. We then select an element in the center of the array as the pivot p
           (see Figure 10.4).
               By choosing p in this fashion, we ensure that all elements above and to
           the left of p are no greater than p, and that all elements below and to the
           right of p are no less than p. In other words, no more than about 3/4ofthe
           elements can be greater than p, and no more than about 3/4 of the elements
           can be less than p. Thus, if we can ﬁnd this p in O(n)time,wehavethe
           following recurrence giving the running time of the algorithm:
                                    f(n) ∈ f(3n/4)+Θ(n).
            Figure 10.4   Finding an approximate median
