            350                      Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
            obtained above from the preﬁx of u. We then append the rest of u to
            this diﬀerence. Finally, we obtain the remaining digits of the quotient by
            dividing the resulting value by v. If we ensure that the result of this last
            division has exactly m−k digits (by padding with zeros if necessary), then
            the digits we obtain complete the quotient. We have therefore reduced the
            division problem to a smaller instance of itself. The reduction is not quite a
            transformation, but it can easily be expressed as a loop.
                This algorithm can easily be applied to the division of an m-bit binary
            number u by an n-bit binary number v. In fact, we really don’t need to
            approximate the ﬁrst signiﬁcant bit — it can’t be a 0, so it must be a 1. We
            do, however, need to determine the preﬁx of u as described above. We then
            subtract v from the preﬁx and append the remainder of u. We obtain the
            remaining bits by dividing this value by v and inserting zeros if necessary.
                In the above algorithm, we perform a Θ(n)-bit subtraction for each 1 bit
            of the quotient. Furthermore, each subtraction is preceded by at least one
            Θ(n)-bit comparison. Because the number of 1 bits in the quotient may be as
            manyasm−n+1,theworst-casenumberofcomparisonsandsubtractionsof
            Θ(n)-bit numbersis (m−n+1).TherunningtimeisthereforeinΘ(n(m−n)),
            which is worse than what we would like.
                We can instead group the bits of u and v into digits of some radix r,
            where r is a power of 2. However, for any ﬁxed radix r, this decreases the
            number of comparisons by at most a constant factor, so that the asymptotic
            running time does not improve. Applying the divide-and-conquer principle,
            wemight try breaking v into two digits. For now, let’s assume the number of
                                                         n/2
            bits n in v is even. Our radix is therefore 2   .Toobtainanapproximation
            of the ﬁrst digit of the quotient, we recursively divide the ﬁrst one or two
            digits of u by the ﬁrst digit of v.
                If n is odd and greater than 1, we can multiply both u and v by 2 without
            changing the quotient. These multiplications have the eﬀect of appending a
            zero as the least signiﬁcant bit, so that the resulting length is even. Because
            n is greater than 1, dividing the length of the resulting divisor by 2 yields
            a smaller subproblem. For n =1,v = 1, so the quotient is simply u.We
            have therefore reduced the division problem to smaller instances of itself.
            The resulting algorithm is shown in Figure 10.7. We assume the existence of
            two constants zero and one,whichrefertoBigNumswithvaluesof0and1,
            respectively.
                Wewill now analyze the running time of DivideDC. We begin with the
            while loop. In order to analyze this loop, we need to know how large prod,
            rem,andapprox might be. From the invariant of the main loop, rem ≤ v−1
