                                     Divide and Conquer                        361
          make sure that our base case gives a value that is less than 2 and no worse
          an estimate than 1 would be, the approximation will always be in the proper
          range.
              Weleave it as an exercise to show that the estimate
                                          11−8y
                                              4
          satisﬁes the speciﬁcation and the requirements discussed above for k ≤ 2.
          8y is simply the ﬁrst 3 bits of y. Because 1/2 ≤ y<1, 4 ≤8y < 8. The
          numerator is therefore always a 3-bit natural number. The ﬁnal division by
          4 simply puts the radix point in the proper place.
              The algorithm is shown in Figure 10.10. We use the variable len to store
          the value k + 3, which, except in the base case, is both the number of bits
          we use from y and the number of bits we return. We assume the existence
          of a constant eleven referring to a BigNum with value 11. Before we do the
          subtraction, we must make sure the radix points in the operands line up.
          Theapproximation x0 has one bit to the left of the implicit radix point. The
          multiplication of x0 by 2 simply moves the radix point to the right one place.
          Asaresult,theimplicit radix point in 2x0 is x0.NumBits()−2 fromthe right
                                                       2
          in x0. Theimplicit radix point in the product yx is len+2(x0.NumBits()−1)
                                                       0
          bits from the right. In order for the radix points to line up, we therefore
          need to pad the value stored in x0 with len + x0.NumBits() zeros prior to
          subtracting.
              Let us now analyze the running time of RecipNewton. Suppose we use
          amultiplication algorithm that runs in O(M(n)) time, where n is the number
            Figure 10.10  Implementation of Reciprocal, speciﬁed in Figure 10.8, using
            Newton’s method with divide-and-conquer
