                                  Divide and Conquer                    363
          running time for DivideRecip is therefore the same as for multiplication,
          even if our multiplication algorithm runs in O(nlgnlglgn)time.
          10.7  Summary
          The divide-and-conquer technique involves reducing large instances of a
          problem to one or more smaller instances, each of which is a fraction of
          the size of the original problem. The running time of the resulting algorithm
          can typically be analyzed by deriving a recurrence to which Theorem 3.35
          applies. Theorem 3.35 can also suggest how to improve a divide-and-conquer
          algorithm.
             Somevariations of the divide-and-conquer technique don’t completely ﬁt
          the above description. For example, quick sort does not necessarily produce
          subproblems whose sizes are a fraction of the size of the original array. As
          a result, Theorem 3.35 does not apply. However, we still consider quick
          sort to be a divide-and-conquer algorithm because its goal is to partition
          an array into two arrays of approximately half the size of the input array,
          and to sort these arrays recursively. Likewise, in LinearSelect, the sizes
          of the two recursive calls are very diﬀerent, but because they are both
          fractions of the original size, the analysis ends up being related to that of a
          more standard divide-and-conquer algorithm. Finally, DivideDC does not
          divide the problem into a bounded number of subproblems; however, all of
          the recursive calls in turn yield at most two recursive calls, so we can analyze
          these calls using standard divide-and-conquer techniques.
          10.8  Exercises
          Exercise 10.1. Prove that PolyMult, shown in Figure 10.1, meets its
          speciﬁcation.
          Exercise 10.2. PolyMult is not particularly eﬃcient when one polyno-
          mial has a degree much larger than that of the other. For example, if p
          has degree n and q has degree 1, a straightforward implementation of the
          deﬁnition of the product yields Θ(n) running time. Devise an algorithm that
          runsinΘ(mnlg3−1)timeonpolynomialsofdegreemandnwithm≥n.Your
          algorithm may use PolyMult.Analyze the runningtime of your algorithm.
          [Hint: If m>n, divide the larger polynomial into polynomials of degree at
          most n.]
          * Exercise 10.3. Construct a divide-and-conquer polynomial multiplica-
          tion algorithm that performs 5 recursive calls on polynomials of 1/3thesize
