                                     Optimization I: Greedy Algorithms                         379
             algorithm is preferred when a ListGraph is used, but Prim’s algorithm is
             preferred when a MatrixGraph is used. If we have the freedom of choosing
             the Graph implementation, we should choose a ListGraph and Kruskal’s
             algorithm for sparse graphs, but a MatrixGraph and Prim’s algorithm for
             dense graphs.
             11.3    Single-Source Shortest Paths
             Consider a route ﬁnding program that we might ﬁnd online or within GPS
             software. There are typically many possible routes leading from a given
             starting point to a given destination, but the software will typically try
             to optimize a particular objective function such as the total expected time.
             We can model such a problem as an instance of a shortest path problem.
             We model the various road segments as edges of a directed graph G whose
             vertices are the road intersections. We represent the starting point with a
             start vertex u and the destination with an end vertex v. A cost (representing,
             for example, the expected time) is associated with each edge. We wish to
             ﬁnd a least-cost path from u to v in G.
                 Wewill use the term length to refer to the cost of an edge, regardless of
             what kind of cost is being represented. A least-cost path is then a shortest
             path. We will assume that edge lengths are positive integers. Note that if
             we have found a shortest path from u to v,andifvertexw occurs on this
             path, then the subpath from u to w is also a shortest path from u to w.
             As a result, when we ﬁnd a shortest path from u to v, we typically ﬁnd
             many other shortest paths from u as well. For this reason, it simpliﬁes the
             discussion to generalize the problem to that of ﬁnding, for every vertex w,
             ashortestpathfromu to w.
                 Weﬁrst observe that for each vertex w = u, if we consider only a single
             shortest path from u to w, then there is a unique predecessor x of w on
             this path. Furthermore, we can select the shortest paths in such a way that
             x precedes w on any shortest path on which w occurs. Thus, for each vertex
             in G, there is a unique sequence of these predecessors leading back to u.
             This predecessor relationship therefore gives the parent relationship of a tree
             rooted at u. This rooted tree can be used to represent the shortest paths.
                 Let us now generalize the problem so that a tree T rooted at u and
             containing a subset of the edges and vertices of the graph is provided as
             additional input. Suppose that this tree is a proper subtree of a shortest
             path tree; i.e., suppose that for each vertex w in the tree, the path from u to
             winthetree is a shortest path from u to w in G. We need to add a vertex x
