          374                 Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
             Theorem 11.1 tells us that our greedy strategy results in an optimal
          schedule. To implement this strategy, we need to consider the jobs in
          non-increasing order of their values, and schedule each schedulable job at the
          latest time possible. Therefore, we should ﬁrst sort the jobs in non-increasing
          order of their values. Using heap sort or merge sort, this can be done in
          Θ(mlgm)time.Schedule,showninFigure8.2,thenimplementsthegreedy
          strategy. Because Schedule can be implemented to run in O(n + mlgn)
          time, if m ∈ Θ(n), the entire algorithm runs in Θ(nlgn)time.
          11.2  Minimum-Cost Spanning Trees
          Suppose we wish to construct a communications network connecting a given
          set of nodes. Given the distances separating each pair of nodes, we wish to
          ﬁnd the network topology that connects all of the nodes using as little cable
          as possible.
             We can state the above problem as a graph problem. In Exercise 9.6,
          we deﬁned a tree to be connected, acyclic, undirected graph. (Note that a
          tree is diﬀerent from a rooted tree as deﬁned on page 154, though we can
          form a rooted tree from a tree by selecting any vertex as the root.) Given a
          connected undirected graph G =(V,E), a spanning tree is a tree (V,T)such
          that T ⊆ E; i.e., a spanning tree is a tree consisting of all of the vertices of
          Gandasubset of the edges. Let cost : E → N give a cost for each edge. We
          wish to ﬁnd a minimum-cost spanning tree (MST) for G — i.e., a spanning
          tree whose edges have minimum total cost.
             In order to develop a greedy algorithm, we ﬁrst generalize the problem
          so that a portion of an MST is given as input. This partial MST will be a
                                    
          subset E ⊆ E such that (V,E ) is acyclic, but not necessarily connected.
          In order to keep the cost as small as possible, we will use as our selection
          criterion the cost of the edge; i.e., we will always select a least-cost edge that
          does not introduce a cycle.
             Weneedtoshowthat the above strategy will result in an MST. In order
          to state the theorem that guarantees this fact, we need one deﬁnition. Let
          G =(V,E) be an undirected graph. A connected component of G is any
          connected subset C ⊆ V such that no vertex in C is adjacent to any vertex
          in V \C. Thus, the connected component containing a vertex v is the set of
          all vertices reachable from v using zero or more edges. We can now state the
          following theorem, which validates our selection strategy.
