                                     Optimization I: Greedy Algorithms                         385
             • Generalize the problem so that a partial solution is given as input.
             • Decide upon a selection criterion for incrementally extending partial
               solutions.
             • Prove that if a given partial solution can be extended to an optimal
               solution, then after extending this partial solution using the chosen
               selection criterion, the resulting partial solution can also be extended to
               an optimal solution.
             • Implement the transformation suggested by the incremental extension
               using a loop.
                 Priority queues are often useful in facilitating quick access to the best
             extension, as determined by the selection criterion. In many cases, the
             extension involves joining pieces of a partial solution in a way that can be
             modeled eﬀectively using a DisjointSets structure.
                 Proving that the incremental extension can be extended to an optimal
             solution is essential, because it is not true for all selection criteria. In fact,
             there are optimization problems for which there is no greedy solution. In
             the next chapter, we will examine a more general, though typically more
             expensive, technique for solving optimization problems.
             11.6    Exercises
             Exercise 11.1. Prove that Kruskal, shown in Figure 11.1, meets its
             speciﬁcation.
             Exercise 11.2. Prove that Prim, shown in Figure 11.2, meets its
             speciﬁcation.
             Exercise 11.3. Instead of using the arrays best and bestCost,Prim’s
             algorithm could use a priority queue to store all of the edges from vertices in
             the spanning tree. As vertices are added to the spanning tree, all edges from
             these vertices would be added to the priority queue. As edges are removed
             from the priority queue, they would need to be checked to see if they connect
             a vertex in the spanning tree with one that is not in the spanning tree.
             Implement this algorithm and analyze its running time assuming the graph
             is implemented as a ListGraph.
             Exercise 11.4. Implement the single-source shortest path algorithm as
             outlined in Section 11.3. Your algorithm should take a Graph G and a
             natural number u<G.Size()andreturnanarraypred[0..G.Size()−1] such
