           390                      Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
           ﬁrst takes 25. At this point, the only denomination that does not cause the
           total to exceed n is 1. The greedy strategy therefore gives a total of six coins:
           one 25 and ﬁve 1s. This solution is not optimal, however, as we can produce
           30 with three 10s.
               Let us consider a more direct top-down solution. If k =1,thend =1,
                                                                                  k
           so the only solution contains n coins. Otherwise, if d >n, we can reduce
                                                                  k
           the size of the problem by removing d from the set of denominations, and
                                                  k
           the solution to the resulting problem is the solution to the original problem.
           Finally, suppose d ≤ n. There are now two possibilities: the optimal solution
                             k
           either contains d or it does not. In what follows, we consider these two cases
                            k
           separately.
               Let us ﬁrst consider the case in which the optimal
           solution does not contain d . In this case, we do not    These two possibilities are
                                       k                            not exclusive — there could
           change the optimal solution if we remove d from the      beoneoptimalsolutionthat
                                                      k             contains dk and another
           set of denominations. We therefore have reduced the      that does not.
           original problem to a smaller problem instance.
               Now suppose the optimal solution contains d . Suppose we remove one
                                                             k
           d coin from this optimal solution. What remains is an optimal solution
            k
           to the instance with the same set of denominations and a target value of
           n−d . Now working in the other direction, if we have the optimal solution
                 k
           to the smaller instance, we can obtain an optimal solution to the original
           instance by adding a d coin. Again, we have reduced the original problem
                                   k
           to a smaller problem instance.
               To summarize, when d ≤ n, the optimal solution can be obtained from
                                      k
           the optimal solution to one of two smaller problem instances. We have no
           way of knowing in advance which of these smaller instances is the right one;
           however, if we obtain both of them, we can compare the two resulting candi-
           date solutions. The one with fewer coins is the optimal solution. In fact, if we
           could quickly determine which of these smaller instances would yield fewer
           coins, we could use this test as the selection criterion for a greedy algorithm.
           Therefore, let us focus for now on the more diﬃcult aspect of this problem
           —thatofdeterminingthe minimum numberof coins in an optimal solution.
               Based on the above discussion, the following recurrence gives the mini-
           mumnumberofcoins needed to obtain a value of n from the denominations
           d ,...,d :
            1       k
                        ⎧n                                    if k =1
                        ⎪
                        ⎨
              C(n,k)= C(n,k−1)                                if k>1, d >n        (12.1)
                        ⎪                                                k
                        ⎩min(C(n,k−1),C(n−d ,k)+1) ifk>1, n≥d .
                                                   k                         k
