                                Optimization II: Dynamic Programming                     399
            0 ≤ j ≤ W:
                          ⎧0ifi=0
                          ⎨
                  V (j)=                                                              (12.4)
                   i        V    (j)ifi>0,j<w
                          ⎩ i−1                                                i
                            max(V     (j),V    (j −w )+v )otherwise.
                                   i−1      i−1       i     i
            The optimal value is then given by Vn(W).
                It is not hard to see that the optimal value can be computed in Θ(nW)
            time and space using dynamic programming — the details are left as an
            exercise. However, suppose W is much larger than the values of the items.
            In this case, another approach might be more appropriate. Let
                                                     n
                                              V =v.
                                                        i
                                                    i=1
            Let us then compute the minimum weight required to achieve each possible
            value v ≤ V . The largest value v yielding a minimum weight no larger than
            W is then our optimal value.
                Taking this approach, we observe that item n is either in the set of items
            for which value v can be achieved with minimum weight, or it isn’t. If it
            is, then the minimum weight can be computed by removing item n and
            ﬁnding the minimum weight needed to achieve a value of v−vn.Otherwise,
            the minimum weight can be computed by removing item n. The following
            recurrence therefore gives the minimum weight Wi(j) needed to achieve a
            value of exactly j from the ﬁrst i items, for 0 ≤ i ≤ n,0≤ j ≤ V:
                        ⎧0ifj=0
                        ⎪
                        ⎪
                        ⎨∞                                        if i =0,j>0
               Wi(j)=                                                                 (12.5)
                        ⎪W (j)ifi>0,0<j<v
                        ⎪ i−1                                                     i
                        ⎩min(W       (j),W    (j −v )+w )otherwise.
                                 i−1       i−1       i     i
            The optimal value is then the maximum j ≤ V such that Wn(j) ≤ W.
                It is not hard to see that a dynamic programming algorithm based on
            this recurrence can ﬁnd the optimal value in Θ(nV) time and space. Again,
            we leave the details as an exercise. Note that we could potentially improve
            the algorithm further if we could ﬁrst ﬁnd a better upper bound than V for
            the optimal value. This would allow us to reduce the number of columns we
            need to computein our array. We will explore this idea further in Chapter 17.
