           404                     Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
            Figure 12.5   An example illustrating Exercise 12.15
                         4
                          3
                               Processor 1: Weight = 8
                         2
                          2
                         3                              B=20
                                                        Communication cost = 2
                          5
                         8     Processor 2: Weight = 17
                          6
                         4
           * Exercise 12.15. A chain is a rooted tree with exactly one leaf. We are
           given a chain representing a sequence of n pipelined processes. Each node i
           in the chain represents a process and has a positive execution time e ∈ N.
                                                                                 i
           Each edge (i,j) has a positive communication cost c     ∈ N. For edge (i,j),
                                                                ij
           if processes i and j are executed on separate processors, the time needed to
           send data from process i to process j is c ; if the processes are executed on
                                                    ij
           the same processor, this time is 0. We wish to assign processes to processors
           such that each processor has total weight no more than a given value B ∈ N.
           The weight of a processor is given by the sum of the execution times of the
           processes assigned to that processor, plus the sum of the communication
           costs of edges between tasks on that processor and tasks on other processors
           (see Figure 12.5). The communication cost of an assignment is the sum of
           the communication costs of edges that connect nodes assigned to diﬀerent
           processors.
               Give a dynamic programming algorithm that ﬁnds the minimum com-
           munication cost of any assignment of processes to processors such that each
           processor has weight no more than B.Notethatweplacenorestrictionon
           the number of processors used. Your algorithm should run in O(n2)time.
           Prove that your algorithm is correct.
           Exercise 12.16. Given two strings x and y, we deﬁne the edit distance from
           x to y as the minimum number of operations required to transform x into y,
           where the operations are chosen from the following:
