           434                      Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
           Case 2: (j,k) is either a forward edge or a tree edge. Then i and j are both
                                              
           ancestors of k. Because j is in G , it can be postorder processed no later
           than i. Therefore, j cannot be a proper ancestor of i. j must therefore be a
           descendant of i.
           Case 3: (j,k) is a cross edge. Then k is postorder processed before j
           is. Because j is postorder processed between k and i, and because k is a
           descendant of i, j must also be a descendant of i.                         
               The above theorem suggests the following approach to ﬁnding the con-
           nected components of G. We ﬁrst do a depth-ﬁrst search on the entire graph
           using a postorder VisitCounter post. We then select all of the vertices. To
           see how we might ﬁnd an arbitrary strongly-connected component, suppose
           someofthecomponentshavebeenfoundandunselected.Weﬁndtheselected
           vertex i that has maximum post.Num(i). We then ﬁnd all vertices j from
           among the selected vertices such that there is a path from j to i containing
           only selected vertices.
               We have to be careful at this point because the set of selected vertices
           may not be exactly the set of vertices that are postorder processed no later
           than i. Speciﬁcally, there may be a vertex j that belongs to one of the
           components that have already been found, but which is postorder processed
           beforei. However, Theorem 13.6 tells us that because j belongs to a diﬀerent
           component than i, there is no path from j to i. Therefore, eliminating such
           nodeswill not interfere with the correct identiﬁcation of a strongly connected
           component. We conclude that the vertices that we ﬁnd comprise the strongly
           connected component containing i.
               In order to be able to implement this algorithm, we need to be able to
           ﬁnd all vertices j from which i is reachable via selected vertices. This is
           almost the same as the reachability problem covered in Section 13.2, except
           that the edges are now directed, and we must follow the edges in the wrong
           direction. It is not hard to see that we can use depth-ﬁrst search to ﬁnd all
           vertices reachable from a given vertex i in a directed graph. In order to be
           able to use this algorithm to ﬁnd all vertices j from which i is reachable, we
           must reverse the direction of the edges.
               Because DfsAll processes all of the edges in the graph, we can use it
           to build a new graph in which all of the edges have been reversed. In fact,
           we can use the same depth-ﬁrst search to record the order of the postorder
           processing of the vertices. We use three representation variables:
