                                  Depth-First Search                   433
             Let us consider a depth-ﬁrst spanning forest of a directed graph G.We
          will begin by trying to ﬁnd one strongly connected component. We ﬁrst note
          that from any vertex i, we can reach all descendants of i. Depending on which
          back edges exist, we may be able to reach some ancestors of i. Depending
          on which cross edges exist, we may be able to reach some other vertices as
          well; however, we cannot reach any vertices in a tree to the right of the tree
          containing i (i.e., vertices in a tree that is processed later).
             This suggests that we might focus on either the ﬁrst or the last tree
          processed. Consider the last tree processed. Let i be the root, and let j be
          any vertex such that there is a path from j to i.Thenj must be in the same
          tree as i, and hence must be a descendant of i. There is therefore a path
          from i to j. As a result, the strongly connected component containing i is
          the set of vertices j such that there is a path from j to i. We generalize this
          fact with the following theorem.
          Theorem 13.6. Let G be a directed graph, and let F be a depth-ﬁrst
          spanning forest of G.LetS be a strongly connected component of G, and let
                                                           
          i be the vertex in S that is postorder processed last. Let G be the subgraph
          of G induced by set of vertices postorder processed no later than i.ThenS
                                                                
          is the set of vertices j such that there is a path from j to i in G .
          Proof.  Clearly, for every vertex j ∈ S, there is a path from j to i that
          stays entirely within S. Because i is postorder processed last of the vertices
                                   
          in S, this path stays within G . Therefore, let j be a vertex such that there
                                
          is a path from j to i in G . We will show that j ∈ S. Speciﬁcally, we will
          show that j is a descendant of i, so that there is a path from i to j.The
                                                                        
          proof is by induction on n, the length of the shortest path from j to i in G .
          Base: n =0.Thenj =i,sothatj is a descendant of i.
          Induction Hypothesis: Let n>0, and assume that for every m<n,if
                                               
          there is a path of length m from k to i in G ,thenk is a descendant of i.
                                                                     
          Induction Step: Suppose there is a path of length n from j to i in G .Let
          (j,k) be the ﬁrst edge in this path. Then there is a path of length n−1from
                   
          k to i in G . From the Induction Hypothesis, k is a descendant of i.Wenow
          have three cases.
          Case 1: (j,k) is a back edge. Then j is clearly a descendant of i.
