                                     Network Flow and Matching                          443
            14.1   The Ford–Fulkerson Algorithm
            Aﬂowfor a given network can be found by ﬁnding a simple path (i.e., one
            in which no vertices are repeated) from the source to the sink. We will refer
            to such a path as anaugmenting path. If no augmenting path exists, then the
            maximum ﬂow must be 0. Otherwise, suppose m is the minimum capacity
            of any edge in some particular augmenting path. We can clearly place a ﬂow
            of m on each edge in that path. We can then solve the smaller network ﬂow
            problem obtained by reducing the capacity of each edge on the augmenting
            path by m, and removing any edge whose capacity would become 0. If we
            measure the size of a problem instance as the value of a maximum ﬂow, then
            the resulting problem instance is clearly smaller. We can then combine the
            ﬂow obtained from the solution to the smaller problem with the ﬁrst ﬂow
            we obtained.
                The above approach clearly ﬁnds a ﬂow for a given network. Unfor-
            tunately, that ﬂow is not guaranteed to be a maximum ﬂow. To see why,
            consider the ﬂow network in Figure 14.1. Suppose the ﬁrst augmenting path
            found is 0,2,4,1,3,5. We can put a ﬂow of 1 on each of these edges. In
            the smaller instance, each of these edges would be removed, so that there is
            no augmenting path in the resulting network. The ﬂow found on the smaller
            instance is therefore empty, so that the ﬁnal ﬂow has value 1. As we have
            already seen, a maximum ﬂow for this network has value 2.
                The most obvious approach to repairing this algorithm is to be more
            careful in how we choose the augmenting path. However, it turns out that a
            more straightforward approach is to be more careful in how we construct the
            smaller problem instance. The problem with the reduction described above
            is that once we decide to place a ﬂow on an edge, we cannot reverse that
            decision. If we are more careful, we can construct a smaller instance that
            allows us to reverse these decisions.
                Speciﬁcally, when we decrease the capacity of an edge by m,wealso
            increase by m the capacity of the edge going the opposite direction. If there
            is no such edge, we add it to the graph. When we combine the two ﬂows, we
            allow ﬂows in opposite directions to cancel each other; i.e., if edge (x,y)has
            ﬂow k and edge (y,x)hasﬂowk ≤ k,wesettheﬂowon(x,y)tok−k and
            the ﬂow on (y,x) to 0. Note that because any edge added to the graph by
            the reduction will have a capacity of m, and the initial ﬂow will be m in the
            opposite direction, the combination of the two ﬂows will result in no ﬂow on
            any edge that was added to the graph. We can therefore remove these edges
            from the resulting ﬂow.
