           452                    Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
            Figure 14.6  The ﬂow network constructed from the bipartite graph shown in
            Figure 14.5
                                   sink      10
                          45678
                               0123
                                 source       9
                                   All edge capacities are 1.
              Consider any matching in the given bipartite graph. We can construct
           a ﬂow in the constructed network by adding a ﬂow of 1 to each edge in the
           matching, as well as to each edge leading to a matched vertex in V1 and
           to each edge leading from a matched vertex in V2. Clearly, any unmatched
           vertex from the bipartite graph will have a ﬂow of 0 on all of its incoming
           and outgoing edges. Furthermore, each matched vertex in V1 will have a ﬂow
           of 1 on its incoming edge and a ﬂow of 1 on the single outgoing edge in the
           matching. Likewise, each matched vertex in V willhaveaﬂowof1onthe
                                                       2
           single incoming edge in the matching and a ﬂow of 1 on its outgoing edge.
           Thus, we have constructed a ﬂow whose value is the number of edges in the
           matching.
              Conversely, consider any ﬂow on the constructed network. Because any
           vertex in V can have an incoming ﬂow of at most 1, at most one of its
                      1
           outgoing edges will contain a positive ﬂow. Likewise, because any vertex in
           V can have an outgoing ﬂow of at most 1, at most one of its incoming edges
            2
           will contain a positive ﬂow. The edges from V to V containing positive ﬂow
                                                     1     2
           therefore correspond to a matching in the bipartite graph. Furthermore, the
           value of the ﬂow is the number of edges in the matching.
              We conclude that the edges from V to V in a maximum ﬂow for the
                                                 1    2
           constructed network are the edges in a maximum-sized matching for the
           given bipartite graph. The resulting ﬂow network has n+2 vertices and n+a
