          500                 Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          Exercise 15.6. A Toeplitz matrix is an n × n array A such that for 1 ≤
          i<nand 1 ≤ j<n, A = A             . Thus, we can describe a Toeplitz
                                ij    i−1,j−1
          matrix by giving only its ﬁrst row and its ﬁrst column. Give an algorithm for
          multiplying an n×n Toeplitz matrix over C by an n-element vector over C.
          You may choose an appropriate representation for the Toeplitz matrix. Your
          algorithm should run in O(nlgn) time, assuming each operation on complex
          numbers can be performed in O(1) time.
          * Exercise 15.7. Let
                                          n−1
                                    p(x)=aixi
                                          i=0
          be a polynomial of degree strictly less than n,whereeachai ∈ R,andlet
          x0 ∈ R. Give an algorithm for computing all of the derivatives of p(x)at
          x0 (i.e., your algorithm should ﬁnd, for 0 ≤ j<n,thejth derivative of
          p(x)atx0). Your algorithm should run in O(nlgn) time, assuming that
          all operations on complex numbers run in O(1) time. [Hint: Deﬁne q(x)=
          p(x0 +x), and ﬁnd all of the derivatives of q(x) at 0. You will probably ﬁnd
          the Binomial Theorem ((6.15) on page 242) helpful.]
          15.7  Notes
          Heideman, Johnson, and Burrus [61] credit Gauss with the discovery of the
          fast Fourier transform in 1805. Its importance to computation was shown by
          Cooley and Tukey [24]. The multiplication algorithm of Section 15.4 is due
          to Sch¨onhage and Strassen [104].
             Though we have referred to Theorem 15.9 as the Chinese Remainder
          Theorem, it is usually stated in the more general form suggested by Exercise
          15.3. The process of solving so-called simultaneous congruences in this
          way dates back to the third or fourth century AD, when the Chinese
          mathematician SunZi(orSunTsu˘)showedhowtosolveaspeciﬁcinstanceof
          simultaneous congruences. Thetechniquewaspublishedasageneral theorem
          by Qin Jiushao (or Chhin Chiu-Shao) in 1247.
