                                         NP-Completeness                               509
               From our earlier discussion, it follows that Sat ∈    We use |x| to denote the
           NP. We can clearly consider any array A[1..n]of lengthoftheencodingofx.
           boolean values to be a bit string, and vice versa. We
           then let the decision problem Y be the problem solved by BoolEval. Hence,
           Y ∈P.Wecanthenletp(n)=n. Then a given expression F is satisﬁable
           iﬀ there is a proof φ such that (x,φ) ∈ Y. Because we have assumed that
           whenever an integer j represents a variable in F, all positive integers less
           than j also represent variables in F, it follows that if a proof φ exists, there
           will always be one with length no more than |F|.
               Wetherefore have an example of a problem in NPthat may or may not
           be in P. The following theorem gives the relationship between P and NP.
           Theorem 16.1. P⊆NP.
           Proof.    Let X ∈P,andletI be the set of instances of X. We then deﬁne
           Y = X ×B.Thus,Y is comprised of all pairs (x,φ) such that x ∈ X and
           φ ∈B. We can therefore decide whether (x,φ) ∈ I ×Bbelongs to Y by
           simply deciding whether x ∈ X. Because X ∈P, it follows that Y ∈P.Let
           p(n)=1.Thenx ∈ X iﬀ (x,0) ∈ Y, and the length of 0 is 1. Therefore
           X∈NP.                                                                        
               It is currently unknown whether the above containment is proper, or
           whether P = NP.Infactthe“P = NP” question is the most famous open
           question in computational complexity theory. Most complexity theorists
           believe that these sets are not equal. Though many of the reasons for this
           belief are beyond the scope of this book, we will soon see one compelling
           reason. For now, let us simply state that we take as a working hypothesis
           that P = NP. Thus, if we can show that some particular statement implies
           that P = NP, we take this as strong evidence that the statement is false.
               In order to focus on the relationship between P and NP,itisuseful
           to identify problems that seem more likely to be in NP\P.Insomesense,
           we want to identify the hardest problems in NP. We can do this using
           a reﬁnement of the notion of problem reduction. Speciﬁcally, let X and
           Y be two decision problems whose instances comprise the sets I and J,
           respectively. We say that X is polynomially many-one reducible to Y, written
           X≤p Y,if there is a function f : I → J such that
                m
           • for all x ∈ I, x ∈ X iﬀ f(x) ∈ Y ;and
           • there is a deterministic polynomial-time algorithm for computing f.
               Note that polynomial many-one reductions are transformations — given
           an instance x of problem X, we can decide whether x ∈ X simply by
