                                                     NP-Completeness                                            521
               ⇐: Suppose F is satisﬁable. Let A be a satisfying assignment. We can then
               construct a vertex cover S as follows. First, for 1 ≤ i ≤ m,ifxi is true in
               A, we include xi in S; otherwise, we include ¬xi. Thus, each of the edges
               {x ,¬x } is covered. Then for 1 ≤ i ≤ n, we include in S two of c , c ,
                  i     i                                                                                   i1   i2
               and c , so that the vertex that is not included is adjacent to an α                             ∈ S
                      i3                                                                                    ij
               (note that because A is a satisfying assignment, such a vertex exists for each
               clause). Thus, S is of size m +2n = k and covers all edges in G.                                   
                    It is easily seen that the above construction can be implemented to run
               in O(m+n)time, or linear in the size of the formula — the details are left as
               an exercise. From Lemma 16.10, 3-Sat ≤p VC. Because 3-Sat is NP-hard,
                                                                      m
               it follows that VC is NP-hard. Because we have shown that VC ∈NP,we
               have the following theorem.
               Theorem 16.11. VC is NP-complete.
               Aproblem closely related to VC is the independent set problem, which we
               denote IS. An independent set in an undirected graph G is a subset S of the
               vertices such that no pair of vertices in S is adjacent in G. The independent
               set problem is to decide, for a given undirected graph G and natural number
               k,whetherG has an independent set of size k. The relationship between IS
               and VC is shown by the following theorem.
               Theorem 16.12. Let G =(V,E) be an undirected graph and S ⊂ V.Then
               S is an independent set iﬀ V \S is a vertex cover.
               Proof.       Wemust show the implication in both directions.
               ⇐:SupposeS is an independentset. Let {u,v}∈E. Because u and v cannot
               bothbeinS,atleastoneofthemisinV \S.Itfollows that V \S is a vertex
               cover.
               ⇒:SupposeV \S isavertex cover. Let u and v be two vertices in S. Because
               V \S is a vertex cover containing neither u nor v, u cannot be adjacent to v.
               It follows that S is an independent set.                                                           
                    Given this close relationship between the two
               problems, it is an easy matter to modify the proof                         If k>n,wecanusen+1
                                                                                          instead.
               that VC ∈NPtoshowthatIS∈NP.Furthermore,
               it follows from Theorem 16.12 that for an undirected graph G with n vertices
               and a positive integer k, G has an independent set of size n − k iﬀ G has a
               vertex cover of size k. Clearly, we can construct n − k in polynomial time;
               hence, VC ≤p IS. We therefore have the following theorem.
                                m
