                                                  NP-Completeness                                        537
              time of any simulation of an algorithmic step. Thus, if we have an algorithm
              that runs in p(n) steps, the RAM simulation will run in no more than
              p(p(n)) steps, which is still polynomial in n.Furthermore,ifthevaluesof
              the natural numbers in the algorithm are bounded by p(n), then so are the
              values in the memory locations of the RAM.
                   Conversely, it is not hard to write an algorithm                 We must also make sure
                                                                                          p(n)
              to simulate a polynomial-time RAM. We can use                         that 2     bounds each
              variables to store the value of the program counter                   constant appearing in the
                                                                                    RAMprogram.
              and the indices of the next available bits of the two
              input streams. In addition, we can use a VArray (see Section 9.5) to store
              the memory locations used by the RAM. Note that because the values of
                                                                             p(n)
              all memory locations must always be less than 2                    ,wherep(n)issome
              polynomial in the number of bits in the two input streams, all memory
                                                                                             p(n)
              locations that can be accessed have addresses strictly less than 2                  .Wecan
                                                       p(n)
              therefore use a VArray of size 2              to keep track of the RAM’s memory. It
              is then a straightforward matter to simulate the RAM using constant time
              for each instruction, plus some constant time for initialization.
                   Using RAMs, we now have a slightly diﬀerent characterization of NP.
              Speciﬁcally, NP is the set of all decision problems X such that there exist
              • polynomials p(n)andp(n); and
              • aRAMM deciding a problem Y ⊆ I ×B,whereI is the set of instances
                 for X;
              such that
              • M terminates within p(|x| +|φ|) steps on input (x,φ);
                                                                                                  p(|x|+|φ|)
              • all memory locations of M maintain values strictly less than 2
                 given input (x,φ);
              • for each x ∈ I, x ∈ X iﬀ there is a proof φ ∈Bsuch that (x,φ) ∈ Y;and
              • for each x ∈ X,thereisaφ ∈Bsuch that (x,φ) ∈ Y and |φ|≤p(|x|).
                   Thus, to reduce an arbitrary problem X ∈NPto Sat, we need to
              construct from a given x ∈ I,whereI is the set of instances of X,aboolean
              formula F such that F is satisﬁable iﬀ there is a φ ∈Bwith |φ|≤p(|x|)
              such that M outputs 1 on input (x,φ). Furthermore, the running time of the
              construction of F must be bounded by some polynomial in |x|. In designing
              the construction, we may utilize p(n), p(n), and M, which depend only on
              the problem X; however, the instance x is the input for the construction, so
              that we cannot know it in advance.
