         548                  Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
         • Look at the proofs of membership in NP and try to transform proofs
                                                             
           φ ∈Bfor the known NP-complete problem to proofs φ ∈Bfor the
           problem in question.
             Large numbers play an interesting role in the theory of NP-complete-
         ness. In particular, some problems become NP-hard simply because very
         large numbers can be given as input using comparatively few bits. The
         deﬁnitions of strong NP-completeness and strong NP-hardness exclude
         such problems. A reﬁnement of polynomial many-one reducibility, namely,
         pseudopolynomial reducibility, is used to prove strong NP-hardness.
         16.10   Exercises
         Exercise 16.1. Prove that if X, Y,andZ are decision problems such that
         X≤p Y and Y ≤p Z,thenX ≤p Z.
             m           m           m
         Exercise 16.2. Adapt BoolEval (Figure 16.2) to evaluate a CNF expres-
         sion F in O(|F|)time.
         Exercise 16.3. Implement the reduction from CSat to 3-Sat, as outlined
         in Section 16.4, to run in O(n) time, where n is the size of the given CNF
         formula.
         Exercise 16.4. Give an algorithm that takes as input an undirected graph
         G, a natural number k, and an array A[0..m−1] of booleans, and determines
         whether A denotes a vertex cover of G with size k. Your algorithm must run
         in O(n + a) time, where n and a are the number of vertices and edges,
         respectively, of G. For the purpose of analyzing the running time, you may
         assume that G is implemented as a ListGraph.
         Exercise 16.5. Implement the reduction from 3-Sat to VC, as outlined in
         Section 16.5, to run in O(m + n) time, where m is the number of variables
         and n is the number of clauses in the given 3-CNF formula.
         * Exercise 16.6. Let NotAllEqual-3-Sat be the problem of deciding,
         for a given 3-CNF formula f, whether there is an assignment of boolean
         variables such that each clause in f contains at least one true literal and at
         least one false literal. Prove that this problem is NP-complete.
         Exercise 16.7. A clique is a complete undirected graph — i.e., a graph
         such that for every pair of distinct vertices u and v, {u,v} is an edge. The
         clique problem (Clique) is the problem of deciding, for a given undirected
