                          NP-Completeness             551
       ** Exercise 16.23. Show that the problem of deciding whether a given
       undirected graph has a 3-coloring is NP-complete. (See Exercise 13.12 for
       the deﬁnition of a 3-coloring.) [Hint: Reduce 3-Sat to this problem.]
       Exercise 16.24. Show that the problem of deciding whether a given
       undirected graph has a k-coloring is NP-complete for each ﬁxed k ≥ 4.
       You may use the result of Exercise 16.23.
       ** Exercise 16.25. Certain aspects of the board game Axis and AlliesTM
       can be modeled as follows. The game is played on an undirected graph.
       The playing pieces include ﬁghters and aircraft carriers, each of which has
       a natural number range. These pieces are each assigned to a vertex of the
       graph. Each vertex may be assigned any number of pieces. A combat scenario
       is valid if it is possible to move each piece to a new vertex (possibly the same
       one) so that
       • for each move, the distance (i.e., number of edges) from the starting vertex
         to the ending vertex is no more than the range of piece moved; and
       • after the pieces are moved, each vertex has no more than twice as many
         ﬁghters as aircraft carriers.
       Prove that the problem of determining whether a combat scenario is valid is
       NP-complete.
       Exercise 16.26. Let k-Part be as deﬁned in Section 16.7.
         a. Prove that k-Part ∈NPfor all k ≥ 1.
       **b. Prove that 3-Part is NP-complete in the strong sense. [Hint: Show
           that 4-Part ≤pp 3-Part.]
                    m
         c. Prove that 2-Part ∈P.
       Exercise 16.27. Thebin packing (BP) problemis to decide whether a given
       set of items, each having a weight wi, can be partitioned into k disjoint sets
       each having a total weight of at most W,wherek and W are given positive
       integers. Show that BP is NP-complete in the strong sense.
       Exercise 16.28. Suppose we are given a complete undirected graph G
       with positive integer edge weights and a positive integer k.Thetraveling
       salesperson problem (TSP) is to determine whether there is a Hamiltonian
       cycle in G with total weight no more than k. Show that this problem is
       NP-complete in the strong sense. You may use the result of Exercise 16.9.
       * Exercise 16.29. We are given a set of n tasks, each having an execution
       time e ∈ N,areadytimer ∈ N, and a deadline d ∈ N. We wish to decide
           i             i              i
