          564                    Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          Theorem 17.4. Let p(x,y) be an integer-valued       Recall that |x| denotes the
          polynomial, and let X be an optimization problem    numberofbitsintheencod-
          whose optimal value on any input x is a natural     ing of x and µ(x) denotes
                                                              the maximum value of any
          number bounded above by p(|x|,μ(x)).Ifthereisa integerencoded withinx.
          fully polynomial approximation scheme for X,then
          there is a pseudopolynomial algorithm for obtaining
          an optimal solution for X.
          Proof.   The pseudopolynomial algorithm operates as follows. Given an
          input x, it ﬁrst computes k = p(|x|,μ(x)). It then uses the fully polynomial
          approximation scheme to approximate a solution with an approximation
          ratio bounded by 1 + 1.LetV be the value of the approximation, and let
                               k
          V∗ be the value of an optimal solution. If the problem is a minimization
          problem, we have
                                        V ≤1+1,
                                        V∗       k
                                         V ≤V∗+V∗,
                                                    k
                                    V −V∗ ≤ V∗
                                              k
                                           <1.
          Because both V and V∗ are natural numbers and V ≥ V∗, we conclude that
          V = V∗. Furthermore, because the fully polynomial approximation scheme
          runs in time polynomial in |x| and p(|x|,μ(x)), it is a pseudopolynomial
          algorithm.
              An analogous argument applies to maximization problems.         
              Because the minimum number of bins needed is clearly no more than
          the length of the input to the bin packing problem, Theorem 17.4 applies to
          this problem. Indeed, the condition that the optimal solution is bounded by
          a polynomial in the length of the input and the largest integer in the input
          holds for most optimization problems. In these cases, if the given problem
          is strongly NP-hard (as is bin packing), there can be no fully polynomial
          approximation scheme unless P = NP.
              If we cannot obtain a fully polynomial approximation scheme for bin
          packing, we might still hope to ﬁnd a polynomial approximation scheme.
          However, the theory of NP-hardness tells us that this is also unlikely. In
          particular, for a ﬁxed positive integer k,letk-BP denote the problem of
          deciding whether, for a given instance of bin packing, there is a solution
          using at most k bins. It is easily seen that Part ≤p 2-BP,sothat2-BP is
                                                         m
