          568                 Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          Proof.  Let >0, and let HC be the problem of deciding whether a given
          undirected graph G contains a Hamiltonian cycle. By Exercise 16.9, HC
          is NP-complete. Since there are no integers in the problem instance, it is
          strongly NP-complete. We will show that HC ≤pp -ApproxTSP,where
           pp                                       T
          ≤T denotes a pseudopolynomial Turing reduction. It will then follow that
          -ApproxTSP is NP-hard in the strong sense.
             Let G =(V,E) be an undirected graph. We ﬁrst construct a complete
                                 
          undirected graph G =(V,E ). Let k = 	+2. We deﬁne the weight of an
          edge e ∈ E as follows:
          • If e ∈ E, then the weight of e is 1.
          • If e 
∈ E, then the weight of e is nk,wheren is the size of V.
          Note that because k is a ﬁxed constant, the weights are bounded by a
          polynomial in the size of G.
             We now show how we can use an approximation of a minimum-
                                    
          weight Hamiltonian cycle in G to decide whether G has a Hamilton cycle.
          Suppose we can obtain an approximation with an approximation ratio of
          no more than 1 + . If the weight of this approximation is n, then the
          corresponding Hamiltonian cycle must contain only edges with weight 1;
          hence, it is a Hamiltonian cycle in G, so we can answer “yes”. Otherwise,
          the approximation contains at least one edge with weight nk,andn>0.
          Theweight of the approximation is therefore at least nk+n−1. Because the
          approximation ratio is no more than 1+, the minimum-weight Hamiltonian
          path has a weight of at least
                            nk+n−1=n(	+2)+n−1
                              1+             1+
                                      >n(1+)
                                         1+
                                      =n.
          Hence, there is no Hamiltonian cycle whose edge weights are all 1. Because
          this implies that G contains no Hamiltonian cycle, we can answer “no”.
             The running time for this algorithm, excluding any time needed to
          compute the approximation, is linear in the size of G.Furthermore,all
          integers constructed have values polynomial in the size of G. We therefore
          conclude that -ApproxTSP is NP-hard in the strong sense.     
             As a result of Theorem 17.7, we have little hope of ﬁnding a polynomial-
          time approximation algorithm yielding a bounded approximation ratio for
          the traveling salesperson problem. However, if we make a certain restriction
