          576                 Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          vertices in the same cluster via edges whose weights are all x.Thus,the
          approximation ratio is x, which can be chosen to be arbitrarily large. We
          can therefore see that even though the maximum cut and minimum cluster
          optimization problems are essentially the same, the MaxCut algorithm
          yields vastly diﬀerent approximation ratios relative to the two problems.
             To carry this idea a step further, we will now show that the minimum
          cluster problem has no approximation algorithm with a bounded approxi-
          mation ratio unless P = NP.Foragiven ∈ R>0 and integer k ≥ 2, let the
          -Approx-k-Cluster problem be the problem of ﬁnding, for a given com-
          plete undirected graph G with positive integer edge weights, a k-cut whose
          sum of cluster weights is at most W∗(1+), where W∗ is the minimum sum
          of cluster weights. Likewise, let -Approx-Cluster be the corresponding
          problem with k provided as an input. We will show that for every positive 
          and every integer k ≥ 3, the -Approx-k-Cluster problem is NP-hard in
          the strong sense. Because -Approx-3-Cluster ≤pp -Approx-Cluster,
                                                     T
          it will then follow that this latter problem is also NP-hardinthestrong
          sense. Whether the result extends to -Approx-2-Cluster is unknown at
          thetimeofthiswriting.
          Theorem17.9. For every  ∈ R>0 and every k ≥ 3, -Approx-k-Cluster
          is NP-hard in the strong sense.
          Proof.  As is suggested by Exercises 16.23 and 16.24, the problem of
          deciding whether a given undirected graph is k-colorable is NP-complete for
          each k ≥ 3. Let us refer to this problem as k-Col. Because k-Col contains
          no large integers, it is NP-complete in the strong sense. We will now show
          that k-Col ≤pp -Approx-k-Cluster,sothat-Approx-k-Cluster is
                      T
          NP-hard in the strong sense for k ≥ 3.
             Let G =(V,E) be a given undirected graph. Let n be the number
          of vertices in G. We can assume without loss of generality that n>k,
                                                                  
          for otherwise G is clearly k-colorable. We construct G =(V,E )tobe
          thecompletegraphonV. We assign an edge weight of n21+ to edge
          {u,v}∈E if {u,v}∈E;otherwise,weassignitaweightof1.Clearly,
          this construction can be completed in time polynomial in n.Furthermore,
          because  is a ﬁxed constant, all integers have values polynomial in n.
                                       
             Suppose we have a k-cut of G such that the ratio of its cluster weight
          to the minimum cluster weight is at most 1 + . If the given cluster weight
          is less than n21+, then all edges connecting vertices in the same cluster
          must have weight less than n21+; hence none of them belong to E.
