          572                 Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          17.5  The Maximum Cut and Minimum Cluster Problems
          Weconclude this chapter by examining two optimization problems that are
          essentially the same, but which yield entirely diﬀerent results with respect to
          approximation algorithms. Let G =(V,E) be a complete undirected graph
          with positive integer edge weights. For a natural number k ≥ 2, a k-cut for
          Gis a partition of V into k disjoint sets, S ,S ,...,S .Theweight of this
                                               1  2     k
          cut is the sum of the weights of all edges {u,v}∈E such that u and v are in
          diﬀerent partitions. The maximum cut problem is to ﬁnd, for a given natural
          number k ≥ 2 and complete undirected graph G =(V,E)withedgeweights
          and more than k vertices, a k-cut with maximum weight. The minimum
          cluster problem is to ﬁnd a k-cut that minimizes the sum of the weights of
          all edges {u,v}∈E such that u and v are in the same partition. Clearly, a
          k-cut has maximum weight iﬀ it minimizes this latter sum.
             Let Cut be the problem of deciding, for given natural numbers k ≥ 2
          and B, and complete undirected graph G =(V,E) with positive integer edge
          weights and more than k vertices, whether there is a k-cut with weight at
          least B.Foreachk ≥ 2, we also deﬁne the k-Cut problem to be the Cut
          problem restricted to cuts of exactly k sets (i.e, k is not given as input,
          but is ﬁxed). We further deﬁne the Cluster and k-Cluster problems
          analogously. We leave as exercises to show that k-Cluster is strongly NP-
          complete for every k ≥ 2, and that Cluster is strongly NP-complete. It
          then follows that Cut and k-Cut for k ≥ 2 are all strongly NP-complete.
             Given the above results, the problems of ﬁnding either a maximum cut
          or a minimum cluster are NP-hard in the strong sense. Thus, from Theorem
          17.4, there is no fully polynomial approximation scheme for either of these
          problems unless P = NP. However, there is a simple greedy strategy that
          yields good approximation ratios for maximum cut. We begin with k empty
          sets, and add vertices one by one to the set that gives us the largest cut. The
          algorithm is shown in Figure 17.6. Note that this algorithm actually uses
          the amount by which the total weight of the clusters would increase when
          choosing the set in which to place a given vertex — these values are easier
          to compute than the weights of the resulting cuts. It is easily seen that this
          algorithm runs in Θ(n2) time, if G is represented by a MatrixGraph.The
          following theorem gives bounds for its approximation ratio.
          Theorem 17.8. For each k ≥ 2, MaxCut yields an approximation ratio
          of no more than
                                      1+ 1 ;
                                         k−1
          thus, the approximation ratio is never more than 2.
