      vi           Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
      of an algorithm is not tied to a particular programming language; hence, we
      have chosen a computational model and corresponding notation that we feel
      are appropriate for communicating algorithms to humans.
        This text contains suﬃcient material for both an advanced undergrad-
      uate course and an introductory graduate-level course on the design and
      analysis of algorithms.
      Prerequisite Material
      This book is intended to be reasonably self-contained. However, a certain
      degree of maturity is assumed regarding the audience. Readers are expected
      to have enough experience in writing programs so as to be able to understand
      algorithms presented in a pseudo language. Experience with basic data
      structures, including stacks, queues, lists, and trees, will be helpful, as will
      experience in manipulating ﬁnite and inﬁnite sums, solving recurrences, and
      performing combinatorial analyses. Though calculus and number theory are
      used occasionally, background in these ﬁelds of study is not assumed.
      Organization
      The outline of this book is as follows:
       I. Fundamentals—thefoundationalmaterial uponwhich the remainder
         of the text is based.
         1. Introduction — introduction to the ideas of speciﬁcation, correct-
          ness, and analysis of algorithms, as well as to the top-down approach.
         2. Proving Algorithm Correctness — introduction to techniques
          for proving algorithm correctness.
         3. Analyzing Algorithms—introductiontoasymptotic notation and
          its use in analyzing worst-case performance of algorithms.
       II. Data Structures —datastructurescommonlyusedwithalgorithms,
         including algorithms presented later in this text.
         4. Basic Techniques for Data Structures — techniques for reason-
          ing about and analyzing data structures. A more detailed discussion
          of the computational model and notation is presented. Amortized
          analysis is introduced.
         5. Priority Queues — binary heaps, leftist heaps, skew heaps, and
          randomized heaps. Randomized algorithms and expected-case anal-
          ysis are introduced.
