                                       Introduction                          9
          formally justify the reasoning used above — namely, that we can assume
          that a recursive call meets its speciﬁcation, provided its input is of a smaller
          size than that of the original call, where the size is some natural number.
             The ability to prove algorithm correctness is quite possibly the most
          underrated skill in the entire discipline of computing. First, knowing how
          to prove algorithm correctness also helps us in the design of algorithms.
          Speciﬁcally, once we understand the mechanics of correctness proofs, we can
          design the algorithm with a proof of correctness in mind. This approach
          makes designing correct algorithms much easier. Second, the exercise of
          working through a correctness proof — or even sketching such a proof —
          often uncovers subtle errors that would be diﬃcult to ﬁnd with testing alone.
          Third, this ability brings with it a capacity to understand speciﬁc algorithms
          on a much deeper level. Thus, the ability to prove algorithm correctness is
          a powerful tool for designing and understanding algorithms. Because these
          activities are closely related to programming, this ability greatly enhances
          programming abilities as well.
             The proof techniques we will introduce ﬁt nicely with the top-down
          approach to algorithm design. As a result, the top-down approach itself
          becomes an even more powerful tool for designing and understanding
          algorithms.
          1.4  Algorithm Analysis
          Once we have a correct algorithm, we need to be able to evaluate how
          well it does its job. This evaluation essentially boils down to an analysis
          of the resource usage of the algorithm, where the resources might be time or
          memory, for example. In Chapter 3, we will present tools for mathematically
          analyzing such resource usage. For now, let us discuss this resource usage
          less formally.
             Consider the InsertSort algorithm given in Figures 1.3 and 1.4, for
          example. If we were to implement this algorithm in a programming language
          and run it on a variety of examples, we would discover that for suﬃciently
          large inputs — typically a few thousand elements — the program will
          terminate abnormally due to a stack overﬂow. This problem is not, strictly
          speaking, an error in the algorithm, but instead is a reﬂection of the fact
          that it uses the machine’s runtime stack ineﬃciently. Using the analysis
          tools of Chapter 3, it is possible to show that this algorithm’s stack usage
          is linear in the size of the array. Because the runtime stack is usually much
          smaller than the total memory available, we usually would like the stack
