      28           Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
      1. The induction hypothesis. We assume that for some arbitrary n ∈ N, P(i)
        is true for every natural number i<n.
      2. The induction step. Using the induction hypothesis, we prove that P(n)
        is true.
        Some readers may be familiar with another version of induction consist-
      ing of three steps:
      1. The base case. P(0) is shown to be true.
      2. The induction hypothesis. P(n) is assumed to be true for some arbitrary
        natural number n.
      3. The induction step. Using the induction hypothesis, P(n +1)isproved.
      Thoughthistechnique is also valid, the version given by Theorem 2.3 is more
      appropriate for the study of algorithms. To see why, consider how we are
      usingthetop-downapproach.Weassociatewitheachinputanaturalnumber
      that in some way describes the size of the input. We then recursively apply
      the algorithm to one or more inputs of strictly smaller size. Theorem 2.3
      tells us that in order to prove that this algorithm is correct for inputs of all
      sizes, we may assume that for arbitrary n, the algorithm is correct for all
      inputs of size less than n. Thus, we may reason about a recursive algorithm
      in the same way we reason about an algorithm that calls other algorithms,
      provided the size of the parameters is smaller for the recursive calls.
        Now let us turn to the proof of Theorem 2.3.
      Proof of Theorem 2.3. Suppose every natural number n satisﬁes the
      Induction Property given in the statement of the theorem. In order to derive
      a contradiction, assume that for some n ∈ N, P(n)=false. Speciﬁcally,
      let n be the smallest such value. Then for every i<n, P(i)=true.Bythe
      Induction Property, P(n)=true — a contradiction. We conclude that our
      assumption was invalid, so that P(n)=true for every natural number n.
        Before we illustrate the use of this principle by proving the correctness
      of InsertSort,let us brieﬂy discuss an element of style regarding induction
      proofs. One of the distinguishing features of this particular induction
      principle is the absence of a base case. However, in most proofs, there
      are special cases in which the induction hypothesis is not used. These are
      typically the smallest cases, where the induction hypothesis gives us little or
      no information. It would be a bit of a misnomer to use the term, “induction
      step”, for such cases. It is stylistically better to separate these cases into
      one or more base cases. Hence, even though a base case is not required, we
      usually include one (or more).
