                        26                                                    Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
                                                                                                                                                                  
                        Sort permutes A (we know this from its postcondition), A contains the
                        same collection of values as does A.
                                                                          
                                 Suppose A[i] <A[k]forsomei,1≤ i ≤ n.Theni<k,forifk<i,
                                             
                        A[k] >A[i] violates the postcondition of Sort. Hence, there are fewer than
                                                                                                                                                      
                        k elements of A , and hence of A, with value less than A [k].
                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                 Now suppose 1 ≤ i ≤ k. From the postcondition of Sort, A [i] ≤ A [k].
                                                                                                                                                                                         
                        Hence, thereare at least k elements of A with value less than or equal to A [k].
                                                                         
                        The returned value A [k] therefore satisﬁes the postcondition of Select. 
                                 Because of what it means for an algorithm to                                                                         If    the      precondition           is
                        meet its speciﬁcation, any proof of correctness will                                                                          deﬁned to be true,wedon’t
                        begin by assuming the precondition. The goal of                                                                               need to assume it, because
                                                                                                                                                      we know that true is true.
                        the proof is then to prove that the postcondition is
                        satisﬁed when the algorithm ﬁnishes. In order to reach this goal, we reason
                        about the eﬀect of each statement in turn. If a statement is a call to another
                        algorithm, we use that algorithm’s speciﬁcation. Speciﬁcally, we must ﬁrst
                        make sure its precondition is satisﬁed (for otherwise, we cannot know what
                        the algorithm does), then we conclude that its postcondition is satisﬁed when
                        it ﬁnishes. We can then use this postcondition to continue our reasoning.
                                 TheproofofTheorem2.1illustratesacommondiﬃcultywithcorrectness
                        proofs. In algorithms, variables typically change their values as the algorithm
                        progresses. However, in proofs, a variable must maintain a single value in
                        order to maintain consistent reasoning. In order to avoid confusion, we
                        introduce diﬀerent names for the value of the same variable at diﬀerent
                        points in the algorithm. It is customary to use the variable name from the
                                                                                                                                                                 
                        algorithm to denote the initial value, and to add a “prime” ( )todenoteits
                                                                                                                                                                                            
                        ﬁnal value. If intermediate value must be considered, “double-primes” ( ),
                        superscripts, or subscripts can be used.
                                 Althoughavariableshouldnotchangeitsvalueoverthecourseofaproof,
                        we do sometimes use the same variable with diﬀerent values when proving
                        diﬀerent facts. For example, the variable i in the proof of Theorem 2.1 can
                        have diﬀerent values in the second and third paragraphs, respectively. It
                        might be helpful to think of such usage as multiple local variables, each
                        having the same name. Within each scope, the value of the variable does
                        not change.
                                 The proof of Theorem 2.1 is straightforward because the algorithm
                        is straight-line — the ﬂow of control proceeds sequentially from the ﬁrst
                        statement in the algorithm to the last. The addition of if statements
