                                       Proving Algorithm Correctness                           33
            loop just terminates that much sooner.) We can therefore prove the following
            theorem.
            Theorem 2.6. The while loop in IterativeInsert always terminates.
            Proof.     We ﬁrst observe that each iteration of the while loop decreases j
            by 1. Thus, if the loop continues to iterate, eventually j ≤ 1, and the loop
            then terminates.                                                                    
                 Proving termination of a while loop can be much more diﬃcult than
            the proof of the above theorem. For example, consider the while loop shown
            in Figure 2.1. The mod operation, when applied to positive integers, gives
            the remainder obtained when an integer division is performed; thus, the if
            statement tests whether n is even. Though many people have studied this
            computation over a numberof years, as of this writing, it is unknown whether
            this loop terminates for all initial integer values of n. This question is known
            as the Collatz problem.
                 On the other hand, when algorithms are designed using the top-down
            approach, proving termination of any resulting while loops becomes much
            easier. Even if an examination of the while loop condition does not help
            us to ﬁnd a proof, we should be able to derive a proof from the reduction
            we used to solve the problem. Speciﬁcally, a loop results from the reduction
            of larger instances of a problem to smaller instances of the same problem,
            where the size of the instance is a natural number. We should therefore be
            able to prove that the expression denoting the size of the instance is a natural
            number that is decreased by every iteration. Termination will then follow.
                 For example, consider again the algorithm IterativeInsert.Inthe
            design of this algorithm (see Section 1.4), we reduced larger instances to
            smaller instances, where the size of an instance was n, the number of array
            elements. In removing the tail recursion from the algorithm, we replaced n
            by j. j should therefore decrease as the size decreases. We therefore base our
            correctness proof on this fact.
              Figure 2.1    Aloop whose termination for all n is unknown
