                                      Chapter 3
                          Analyzing Algorithms
          In Chapter 1, we saw that diﬀerent algorithms for the same problem can
          have dramatically diﬀerent performance. In this chapter, we will introduce
          techniques for mathematically analyzing the performance of algorithms.
          These analyses will enable us to predict, to a certain extent, the performance
          of programs using these algorithms.
          3.1  Motivation
          Perhaps the most common performance measure of a program is its running
          time. The running time of a program depends not only on the algorithms it
          uses, but also on such factors as the speed of the processor(s), the amount
          of main memory available, the speeds of devices accessed, and the impact of
          other software utilizing the same resources. Furthermore, the same algorithm
          can perform diﬀerently when coded in diﬀerent languages, even when all
          other factors remain unchanged. When analyzing the performance of an
          algorithm, we would like to learn something about the running time of any
          of its implementations, regardless of the impact of these other factors.
             Suppose we divide an execution of an algorithm into a sequence of steps,
          each of which does some ﬁxed amount of work. For example, a step could be
          comparing two values or performing a single arithmetic operation. Assuming
          the values used are small enough to ﬁt into a single machine word, we could
          reasonably expect that any processor could execute each step in a bounded
          amount of time. Some of these steps might be faster than others, but for
          any given processor, we should be able to identify both a lower bound l>0
          and an upper bound u ≥ l on the amount of time required for any single
          execution step, assuming no other programs are being executed by that
                                           55
