                     Analyzing Algorithms     75
      variety of functions. However, the main restriction on the applicability of
      this theorem is that f(n)isintermsoff(n−1), so that it applies only to
      those algorithms whose recursive calls reduce the size of the problem by 1.
        Let us now see how Theorem 3.34 can be applied to the analysis of
      MaxSuffixTD. (3.6) ﬁts the form given in Theorem 3.34, where a =1,
      b =1,g(n) = 1, and X = Θ. Therefore, the second case of Theorem 3.34
      applies. Substituting the values for X, a,andg(n) in that solution, we obtain
      f(n) ∈ Θ(n).
        Knowing that MaxSuffixTD operates in Θ(n) time, we can now
      analyze MaxSumTD in the same way. In this case, the time required
      excluding the recursive call is in Θ(n), because a call to MaxSuffixTD
      is made. Letting f(n) denote the running time for MaxSumTD on an array
      of size n,weseethat
                    f(n) ∈ f(n−1)+Θ(n)
      for n>0. Again, this recurrence ﬁts the form of Theorem 3.34 with a =1,
      b =1,g(n)=n,andX = Θ. The second case again holds, so that the
      running time is in Θ(n2).
        It is no coincidence that both of these analyses ﬁt the second case of
      Theorem 3.34. Note that unless a and b are both 1, Theorem 3.34 yields an
      exponential result. Thus, eﬃcient algorithms will always ﬁt the second case
      if this theorem applies. As a result, we can observe that an algorithm that
      makesmorethanonerecursivecallofsize n−1willyield an exponential-time
      algorithm.
        Wehaveincluded the ﬁrst and third cases in Theorem 3.34 because they
      are useful in deriving a solution for certain other types of recurrences. To
      illustrate how these recurrences arise, we consider another solution to the
      maximum subsequence sum problem (see Section 1.6).
        The technique we will use is called divide-and-conquer. This technique,
      which we will examine in detail in Chapter 10, involves reducing the size of
      recursive calls to a ﬁxed fraction of the size of the original call. For example,
      we may attempt to make recursive calls on arrays of half the original size.
        We therefore begin this solution by dividing a large array in half, as
      nearly as possible. The subsequence giving us the maximum sum can then
      lie in one of three places: entirely in the ﬁrst half, entirely in the second
      half, or partially in both halves, as shown in Figure 3.2. We can ﬁnd the
      maximum subsequence sum of each half by solving the two smaller problem
      instances recursively. If we can then ﬁnd the maximum sum of any sequence
