         74                 Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
         this algorithm has a running time in Θ(1) plus whatever is required by the
         recursive call. The diﬃculty here is in how to determine the running time of
         the recursive call without knowing the running time of the algorithm.
            The solution to this diﬃculty is to express the running time as a
         recurrence. Speciﬁcally, let f(n) denote the worst-case running time of
         MaxSuffixTDonanarrayofsizen.Thenforn>0,wehavetheequation,
                              f(n)=g(n)+f(n−1)                    (3.5)
         whereg(n) ∈ Θ(1)is theworst-case runningtime of thebodyof thefunction,
         excluding the recursive call. Note that f(n−1) has already been deﬁned to
         be the worst-case running time of MaxSuffixTD on an array of size n−1;
         hence, f(n−1) gives the worst-case running time of the recursive call.
            The solution of arbitrary recurrences is beyond the scope of this book.
         However, asymptotic solutions are often much simpler to obtain than are
         exact solutions. First, we observe that (3.5) can be simpliﬁed using set
         operations:
                              f(n) ∈ f(n−1)+Θ(1)                  (3.6)
         for n>0.
            It turns out that most of the recurrences that we derive when analyzing
         algorithms ﬁt into a few general forms. With asymptotic solutions to these
         general forms, we can analyze recursive algorithms without using a great
         deal of detailed mathematics. (3.6) ﬁts one of the most basic of these forms.
         The following theorem, whose proof is outlined in Exercise 3.23, gives the
         asymptotic solution to this form.
         Theorem 3.34. Let
                                               n
                           f(n) ∈ af(n−1)+X(b g(n))
         for n>n, where n ∈ N,a≥ 1 and b ≥ 1 are real numbers,g(n) is a
                 0        0
         smooth function, and X is either O, Ω, or Θ.Then
                                ⎧ n
                                ⎪X(b g(n))   if a<b
                                ⎪
                                ⎨     n
                           f(n) ∈ X(na g(n)) if a = b
                                ⎪
                                ⎪
                                ⎩X(an)       if a>b.
            When we apply this theorem to the analysis of algorithms, a in the
         recurrence denotes the number of recursive calls. The set X(bng(n)) contains
         the function giving the running time of the algorithm, excluding recursive
         calls. Note that the expression bng(n) is general enough to describe a wide
