                               Analyzing Algorithms                73
         i − 1 times. Because each iteration runs in Θ(1) time, the while loop runs
         in O(i)timeintheworstcase.
            In order to be able to conclude that the loop runs in Θ(i)timeinthe
         worst case, we must determine that for arbitrarily large i,theloopmay
         iterate until j = 1. This is certainly the case if, prior to the beginning of the
         loop, A[i] is strictly less than every element in A[1..i − 1]. Thus, the while
         loop runs in Θ(i)timeintheworstcase.
            It is now tempting to use Theorem 3.31 to conclude that the entire
         algorithm’s running time is in
                                 n
                          Θ(1)+Θ(i)⊆Θ(1)+Θ(n2)
                                i=1
                                       =Θ(n2).
         However, we must be careful, because we have not shown that the while
         loop runs in Ω(i)timeforevery iteration of the for loop; hence the running
         time of the for loop might not be in
                                    n
                                   Θ(i).
                                   i=1
            We must show that there are inputs of size n, for every suﬃciently
         large n, such that the while loop iterates i − 1 times for each iteration
         of the for loop. It is not hard to show that an array of distinct elements in
         decreasing order will produce the desired behavior. Therefore, the algorithm
         indeed operates in Θ(n2)time.
         3.7  Analyzing Recursion
         Before we consider how to analyze recursion, let us ﬁrst consider how to
         analyze non-recursive function calls. For example, consider SimpleSelect
         from Figure 1.2 on page 7. This algorithm is easy to analyze if we know the
         running time of Sort. Suppose we use InsertionSort (Figure 1.7, page
         12). We saw in the last section that InsertionSort runs in Θ(n2)time.
         The running time of SimpleSelect is therefore in
                             Θ(1)+Θ(n2)⊆Θ(n2).
         Suppose now that we wish to analyze an algorithm that makes one or more
         recursive calls. For example, consider MaxSuffixTD from Figure 1.13 on
         page 18. We analyze such an algorithm in exactly the same way. Speciﬁcally,
