                                      Chapter 4
              Basic Techniques for Data Structures
          Algorithms must manipulate data, often in large quantities. Therefore, the
          way in which an algorithm stores and accesses data can have a signiﬁcant
          impact on performance. The principles developed in the ﬁrst three chapters
          apply to data structures, but in a somewhat diﬀerent way than to algorithms.
          In this chapter, we will examine the ways in which top-down design, correct-
          ness proofs, and performance analysis can be applied to data structures. We
          will use rather simple data structures as examples. In succeeding chapters,
          we will apply these techniques to more involved structures.
          4.1  Stacks
          One of the strengths of both top-down design and object-oriented design is
          their use of abstraction to express high-level solutions to problems. In fact,
          we can apply abstraction to the problems themselves to obtain high-level
          solutions to many similar problems. Such high-level solutions are known
          as design patterns. For example, consider the “undo” operation in a word
          processor. We have some object that is undergoing a series of modiﬁcations.
          Anapplication of the “undo” operation restores the object to its state prior
          to the last modiﬁcation. Subsequentapplications of “undo”restoretheobject
          to successively earlier states in its history.
             Wehavecapturedtheessenceofthe“undo”operationwithoutspecifying
          any of the details of the object being modiﬁed or the functionality of the
          documentformatter inwhich it will appear. In fact, our description is general
          enough that it can apply to other applications, such as a spreadsheet or the
          search tree viewer on this book’s web site. We have therefore speciﬁed a
          design pattern for one aspect of functionality of an application.
                                           109
