          112                   Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          4.2  ASimple Stack Implementation
          Theﬁrststepindesigninganimplementation foradatastructureistodecide
          upon a representation of the data. Perhaps the simplest representation of a
          stack is an array storing the sequence of elements. Because we will want to
          push additional elements onto the stack, we should use an array larger than
          the number of elements. We therefore need a way to ﬁnd the last element
          of the sequence, or the top element of the stack. We can accomplish this by
          keeping track of the number of elements in the stack.
             Such a representation is a bit too simple, because the size of the array
          limits the size of the stack — i.e., once we have constructed the array, we have
          limited the size of the sequence we can represent. In order to accommodate
          this shortcoming, we will associate with each of these stacks a capacity,which
          gives the maximum number of elements it can hold. Later, we will consider
          howthisrestriction might be removed. As a result of this restriction, we must
          modify our speciﬁcation of the Push operation so that if n is strictly less
          than the stack’s capacity, then Push(a) adds a to the end of the sequence.
          In order to be able to check this condition, we will replace the IsEmpty
          operation with a more general Size operation that returns the number of
          elements in the stack.
             Our representation, therefore, consists of:
          • an Array elements[1..M]forsomeM ≥ 0; and
          • a Nat size.
          The value M above is not an explicit part of the representation, but we
          assume that we can obtain its value by using the function SizeOf, speciﬁed
          in Figure 1.20 on page 23.
             In order to make sense of a given representation, we need an inter-
          pretation, which relates a given set of values for the variables in the
          representation to a speciﬁc instance of the formal deﬁnition. The variables
          used by the interpretation may include not only the representation vari-
          ables, but also variables that may be accessed using the representation
          variables. In our present example, elements[1..size] describes the stack
          elements[1],...,elements[size],andSizeOf(elements) gives the capacity
          of the stack.
             The above interpretation is problematic when size is outside the bounds
          of the array. We therefore need a mechanism to ensure that the values of
          a given representation are valid. To this end we use a structural invariant.
          Thisinvariant is a statement about the values of the representation variables,
