                                    Basic Techniques for Data Structures                        115
                i.e., with an error condition, then we assume the structure has not been
                constructed.)
             2. Maintenance: If the structural invariant holds prior to the beginning of
                an operation, then it holds following completion of that operation.
             3. Security: If the structural invariant holds, then the state can only be
                modiﬁed by invoking one of this structure’s operations.
             4. Termination: Each operation and constructor terminates.
             5. Correctness: If the structural invariant and the precondition hold prior
                to the beginning of an operation, then the postcondition holds following
                the completion of that operation.
                 We have already seen four of these ﬁve parts in proofs of algorithm
             correctness. Security is needed not only to make sure that malicious or
             untrusted code cannot violate the intended purpose of the data structure,
             but also to guarantee that the structural invariant is maintained between
             operations. In order to guarantee security, we need a mechanism for
             restricting access to the representation variables. Before we can discuss
             this mechanism, however, we ﬁrst need to provide some details about the
             computational model we are assuming. We will tackle all of this shortly;
             however, let us ﬁrst give an example of the other four parts via a correctness
             proof for SimpleStack. We will ﬁrst state security as a lemma to be proved
             later, then we will show that SimpleStack meets its speciﬁcation.
             Lemma 4.1. Security holds for SimpleStack.
             Theorem 4.2. SimpleStack meets its speciﬁcation.
             Proof.     We must show initialization, maintenance, security, termination,
             and correctness.
             Initialization: First, suppose the precondition to the constructor is met;
             i.e., that cap is a Nat. Then the constructor will terminate normally with
             size = 0, which we interpret as meaning the represented sequence is empty.
             Because we interpret SizeOf(elements), which is cap, to be the capacity of
             the stack, the postcondition is therefore met. Furthermore, regardless of the
             truth of the precondition, if the constructor terminates without error, size
             will be 0 and elements will refer to an array. Because an array cannot have a
             negative number of elements, its size is at least 0. Therefore, the structural
             invariant holds (0 ≤ size ≤ SizeOf(elements)).
