           124                       Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
           may be few enough that they do not signiﬁcantly impact the algorithm’s
           overall performance. In such a case, it makes sense to consider the worst-
           case performance of an entire sequence of operations, rather than a single
           operation. This idea is the basis for amortized analysis.
               Withamortized analysis, we consider an arbitrary sequence of operations
           performedonaninitiallyemptydatastructure.Wethendoaformofworst-
           case analysis of this sequence of operations. Clearly, longer sequences will
           have longer running times. In order to remove the dependence upon the
           length of the sequence, we amortize the total running time of the sequence
           over the individual operations in the sequence. For the time being, this
           amortization will simply be to compute the average running time for an
           individual operation in the sequence; later in this chapter we will generalize
           this deﬁnition. The analysis is still worst-case because the sequence is
           arbitrary — we are ﬁnding the worst-case amortized time for the operations
           on the data structure.
               For example, consider any sequence of n operations on an initially empty
           stack constructed with ExpandableArrayStack(k). We ﬁrst analyze the
           worst-case running time of such a sequence. We can use the techniques
           presented in Chapter 3, but the analysis is easier if we apply a new technique.
           We ﬁrst analyze the running time ignoring all iterations of the for loop in
           the Push operation and any loop overhead that results in the execution of
           an iteration. Having ignored this code, it is easily seen that each operation
           requires Θ(1) time, so that the entire sequence requires Θ(n)time.
               We now analyze the running time of all iterations of the for loop
           throughout the entire sequence of operations. In order to accomplish this,
           wemustcomputethetotal numberof iterations. The array will be expanded
           to size 2k the ﬁrst time the stack reaches size k+1. For this ﬁrst expansion,
           the for loop iterates k times. The array will be expanded to size 4k the ﬁrst
           time the stack reaches size 2k + 1. For this expansion, the loop iterates 2k
                                                                   i+1
           times. In general, the array will be expanded to size 2    k theﬁrsttimethe
                                i                                   i
           stack reaches size 2 k + 1, and the loop will iterate 2 k times during this
           expansion. Because the sequence contains n operations, the stack can never
           exceed size n. Therefore, in order to compute an upper bound on the total
                                                  i
           number of iterations, we must sum 2 k for all i ≥ 0 such that
                                      i
                                     2 k +1≤n
                                            i
                                           2 ≤(n−1)/k
                                            i ≤ lg(n − 1) − lgk.
