      132          Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
        In order to motivate this technique, it is helpful to think of amortized
      analysis using an analogy. Suppose we have a daily budget for gasoline for a
      car. We want to track our gasoline purchases to ensure that we don’t exceed
      this budget. Further suppose that we begin tracking these expenses when the
      tank is full. We may then have several days in which we spend no money on
      gasoline. At some point, we will reﬁll the tank, thus incurring a large expense
      which may be greater than our daily budget. However, if we amortize this
      cost over all of the days since we last ﬁlled the tank, we will hopefully ﬁnd
      that we have remained within our daily budget for each of these days.
        One way to monitor our budget more closely is to consider the potential
      cost of ﬁlling the tank at the end of each day. Speciﬁcally, suppose that we
      have a very precise gas gauge on our car. In order to keep the analogy simple,
      we will also suppose that the cost of gasoline remains constant. At the end
      of each day, we could then measure the amount of gasoline in the tank and
      compute the cost of potentially ﬁlling the tank at that point.
        For example, suppose gasoline costs $3 per gallon. Further suppose that
      on consecutive days, we ﬁnd that our 10-gallon tank contains 8 gallons and
      6.5 gallons, respectively. On the ﬁrst day, the potential cost of ﬁlling the
      tank was $6, as the tank would hold 2 additional gallons (see Figure 4.12).
      Onthesecond day, the potential cost was $10.50, as the tank would hold 3.5
      additional gallons. Assuming that no gasoline was added to the tank that
      day, the cost of the gasoline used that day was then $4.50 — the diﬀerence
      in the two potential costs.
        Ondays in which we ﬁll the tank, the computation is only slightly more
      complicated. Note that on these days, the potential cost is likely to decrease.
      For example, suppose that the previous day’s level (day 4 in Figure 4.12)
      was 3 gallons, today’s level is 9 gallons, and that we spent $24 to purchase 8
      gallons of gasoline. The potential cost of ﬁlling the tank has decreased from
      $21 to $3; hence, the change in potential cost is negative $18. However, we
      should include the cost of the gasoline we actually purchased, resulting in
      an amortized cost of $6 for that day. In general, we compute the amortized
      cost by adding the actual cost to the change in potential cost.
        Note that this amortization process is somewhat pessimistic, as we are
      assessing costs before we actually incur them; however, it is a safe way of
      verifying our budget. Speciﬁcally, suppose we sum up the amortized costs
      for any sequence of days, beginning with a day in which the tank is full.
      The sum of changes in potential costs will be the net change in potential
      cost. Because the tank is initially full, the initial potential cost is 0; hence
      the net change in potential cost is the ﬁnal potential cost. The remainder of
