           160                      Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
           Theorem 5.1. For any binary tree T with n nodes, the null path length of
           T is at most lg(n +1).
               Theproof of this theorem is typical of many proofs of properties of trees.
           It proceeds by induction on n using the following general strategy:
           • For the base case, prove that the property holds when n = 0 — i.e., for
              an empty tree.
           • For the induction step, apply the induction hypothesis to one or more of
              the children of a nonempty tree.
           Proof of Theorem 5.1.        By induction on n.
           Base: n = 0. Then by deﬁnition, the null path length is 0 = lg1.
           Induction Hypothesis: Assume for some n>0thatfor0≤ i<n,the
           null path length of any tree with i nodes is at most lg(i +1).
           Induction Step: LetT beabinarytreewithnnodes.Thenbecausethetwo
           children together contain n − 1 nodes, they cannot both contain more than
           (n−1)/2 nodes; hence, one of the two children has no more than (n−1)/2
           nodes. By the induction hypothesis, this child has a null path of at most
           lg((n −1)/2 +1). The null path length of T is therefore at most
                            1+lg((n−1)/2+1)≤1+lg((n+1)/2)
                                                    =lg(n+1).
                                                                                      
               By the above theorem, if we can always choose        The term “leftist” refers to
           the child with smaller null path length for the          the tendency of these struc-
           recursive call, then the merge will operate in O(lgn)    tures to be heavier on the
                                                                    left.
           time, where n is the number of nodes in the larger of
           the two heaps. We can develop slightly simpler algorithms if we build our
           heaps so that the right-hand child always has the smaller null path length, as
           in Figure 5.6(a). We therefore deﬁne a leftist tree to be a binary tree which, if
           nonempty, has two leftist trees as children, with the right-hand child having
           a null path length no larger than that of the left-hand child. A leftist heap
           is then a leftist tree that is also a heap.
               In order to implement a leftist heap, we will use an implementation of
           a leftist tree. The leftist tree implementation will take care of maintaining
           the proper shape of the tree. Because we will want to combine leftist trees
