                         Priority Queues          157
       Ourstructural invariant will be that elements is a heap whose size is given by
       size. We interpret the contents of the nodes comprising this heap as the set of
       items stored in the priority queue, together with their associated priorities.
         Implementation of MaxPriority is now trivial — we just return the
       key of the root. To implement RemoveMax, we must remove the root
       (provided the heap is non-empty) and return the data from its contents.
       When we remove the root, we are left with the two children, which must
       then be combined into one heap. We therefore will deﬁne an internal function
       Merge,whichtakes as input two heaps h and h with no nodes in common
                                1   2
       (i.e., the two heaps share no common structure, though they may have keys
       in common), and returns a single heap containing all of the nodes from h
                                                    1
       and h . Note that we can also use the Merge function to implement Put
          2
       if we ﬁrst construct a single-node heap from the element we wish to insert.
         Let us consider how to implement Merge. If either of the two heaps h
                                                    1
       and h is nil (i.e., empty), we can simply return the other heap. Otherwise,
          2
       the root of the result must be the root of either h or h , whichever root
                                      1   2
       contains a Keyed item with larger key (a tie can be broken arbitrarily). Let
       Ldenote the heap whose root contains the maximum key, and let S denote
       the other heap. Then we must form a heap whose root is the root of L and
       whose two children are heaps containing the nodes in the following three
       heaps:
       • the left child of L;
       • the right child of L;and
       • S.
       We can form these two children by recursively merging two of these three
       heaps.
         A simple implementation, which we call SimpleHeap,isshownin
       Figure 5.5. Note that we can maintain the structural invariant because we
       can ensure that the precondition to Merge is always met (the details are left
       as an exercise). Note also that the above discussion leaves some ﬂexibility in
       theimplementation of Merge.Infact,wewillseeshortlythatthisparticular
       implementation performs rather poorly. As a result, we will need to ﬁnd a
       better way of choosing the two heaps to merge in the recursive call, and/or
       a better way to decide which child the resulting heap will be.
         Let us now analyze the running time of Merge. Suppose h and h
                                               1    2
       together have n nodes. Clearly, the running time excluding the recursive
       call is in Θ(1). In the recursive call, L.RightChild() has at least one fewer
       node than does L; hence the total number of nodes in the two heaps in the
