                                     Priority Queues                       153
          whenever the key examined is greater than or equal to p.Theworstcase
          therefore occurs whenever we are looking for a key smaller than any key in
          the set. In the worst case, the number of iterations is therefore given by the
          following recurrence:
                                   f(n)=f(n/2)+1
          for n>1. From Theorem 3.35, f(n) ∈ Θ(lgn). Therefore, Find runs in
          Θ(lgn)time.
             Let us now analyze the running time of Put.Letn be the value of
          size. The ﬁrst statement requires Θ(lgn) time, and based on our analysis
          in Section 4.3, the Expand function should take O(n)timeintheworst
          case. Because we can amortize the time for Expand, let us ignore it for now.
          Clearly, everything else outside the for loop and a single iteration of the
          loop run in Θ(1) time. Furthermore, in the worst case (which occurs when
          the new key has a value less than all other keys in the set), the loop iterates
          n times. Thus, the entire algorithm runs in Θ(n)timeintheworstcase,
          regardless of whether we count the time for Expand.
          5.2  Heaps
          The SortedArrayPriorityQueue has very eﬃcient MaxPriority and
          RemoveMaxoperations, but a rather slow Put operation. We could speed
          up the Put operation considerably by dropping our requirement that the
          array be sorted. In this case, we could simply add an element at the
          end of the array, expanding it if necessary. This operation is essentially
          the same as the ExpandableArrayStack.Push operation, which has an
          amortized running time in Θ(1). However, we would no longer be able to
          take advantage of the ordering of the array in ﬁnding the maximum priority.
          As a result, we would need to search the entire array. The running times
          for the MaxPriority and RemoveMax operations would therefore be in
          Θ(n) time, where n is the number of elements in the priority queue.
             In order to facilitate eﬃcient implementations of all three operations,
          let us try applying the top-down approach to designing an appropriate data
          structure. Suppose we have a non-empty set of elements. Because we need
          to be able to ﬁnd and remove the maximum priority quickly, we should
          keep track of it. When we remove it, we need to be able to locate the new
          maximumquickly.Wecanthereforeorganizetheremainingelementsintotwo
          (possibly empty) priority queues. (As we will see, using two priority queues
          for these remaining elements can yield signiﬁcant performance advantages
