                                          Priority Queues                              155
               –eachT is a rooted tree comprised of some (possibly empty) set N ⊆
                        i                                                              i
                 N\{x} (i.e., each element of each Ni is an element of N, but not the
                 root node);
               – k N =N\{x}(i.e., the elements in all of the sets N together form
                   i=1  i                                                  i
                 the set N, without the root node); and
               –fori = j, N ∩N = ∅ (i.e., no two of these sets have any elements in
                             i     j
                 common).
            Thus, the structure shown in Figure 5.3 is a rooted tree comprised of 10
            nodes. Note that the data items contained in the nodes are not all distinct;
            however, the nodes themselves are distinct. The root node contains 89. Its
            ﬁrst child is a rooted tree comprised of six nodes and having a root node
            containing 53.
                When a node c is a child of a node p,wesaythatp is the parent of c.
            Also, two children of a given node are called siblings. Thus, in Figure 5.3,
            the node containing 48 has one node containing 53 as its parent and another
            as its sibling. We refer to a non-empty tree whose children are all empty as
            a leaf. Thus, in Figure 5.3, the subtree whose root contains 13 is a leaf.
                We deﬁne the size of a rooted tree to be the number of nodes which
            comprise it. Another important measure of a non-empty rooted tree is its
            height, which we deﬁne recursively to be one plus the maximum height of
            its non-empty children; if it has no non-empty children, we say its height
            is 0. Thus, the height is the maximum of the distances from the root to the
            leaves, where we deﬁne the distance as the number of steps we must take to
            get from one node to the other. For example, the tree in Figure 5.3 has size
            10 and height 4.
                When we draw rooted trees, we usually do not draw empty trees. For
            example, in Figure 5.3, the subtree whose root contains 24 has two children,
            but the ﬁrst is empty. This practice can lead to ambiguity; for example, it is
            not clear whether the subtree rooted at 13 contains any children, or if they
            might all be empty. For this and other reasons, we often consider restricted
            classes of rooted trees. Here, we wish to deﬁne a binary tree as a rooted tree
            in which each non-empty subtree has exactly two children, either (or both)
            of which may be empty. In a binary tree, the ﬁrst child is called the left
            child, and the other is called the right child. If we then state that the rooted
            tree in Figure 5.3 is a binary tree, it is clear that the subtree rooted at 13,
            because it is nonempty, has two empty children.
                It is rather diﬃcult to deﬁne an ADT for either trees or binary trees
            in such a way that it can be implemented eﬃciently. The diﬃculty is in
