      168          Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
      shows this sequence of insertions for i = 3. Note that each time an even
      key is inserted, because it is the largest in the heap, it becomes the new
      root and the original heap becomes its left child. Then when the next key
      is inserted, because it is smaller than the root, it is merged with the empty
      right child, then swapped with the other child. Thus, after each odd key is
      inserted, the heap will contain all the even keys in the rightmost path (i.e.,
      the path beginning at the root and going to the right until it reaches an
      empty subtree), and for i ≥ 1, key 2i will have key 2i − 1 as its left child.
      Finally, when key 0 is inserted, because it is the smallest key in the heap,
      it will successively be merged with each right child until it is merged with
      the empty subtree at the far right. Each of the subtrees on this path to the
      right is then swapped with its sibling. Clearly, this last insertion requires
      Θ(i) running time, and i is proportional to the number of nodes in the heap.
        The bad behavior described above results because a long rightmost
      path is constructed. Note, however, that 2i Put operations were needed
      to construct this path. Each of these operations required only Θ(1) time.
      Furthermore, after the Θ(i) operation, no long rightmost paths exist from
      any node in the heap (see Figure 5.11). This suggests that a skew heap might
      have good amortized running time.
        A good measure of the actual cost of the SkewHeap operations is the
      number of calls to Merge, including recursive calls. In order to derive a
      bound on the amortized cost, let us try to ﬁnd a good potential function.
      Based upon the above discussion, let us say that a node is good if its left
      child has at least as many nodes as its right child; otherwise, it is bad.We
      now make two key observations, whose proofs are left as exercises:
      • In any binarytree with n nodes, the numberof good nodesin therightmost
       path is no more than lg(n+1).
      • In the Merge function, if L is a bad node initially, it will be a good node
       in the resulting heap.
        Due to these observations, we use as our potential function the number
      of bad nodes in the heap. Because the number of good nodes in each of the
      two rightmost paths is logarithmic, the potential function can increase by
      only a logarithmic amount on any Merge. Furthermore, because any bad
      nodeencountered becomes good, the resulting change in potential will cancel
      the actual cost associated with this call, leaving only a logarithmic number
      of calls whose actual costs are not canceled. As a result, we should expect
      the amortized costs of the SkewHeap operations to be in O(lgn), where n
      is the number of elements in the priority queue (the details of the analysis
