                                      Storage/Retrieval I: Ordered Keys                          213
              Figure 6.12     Adouble rotate right
             may have heights of either h or h − 1 (though at least one must have
             height h). It is therefore easily seen that following the rotation, balance
             is restored.
                 These two rotations handle the cases in which the left child has height
             2 greater than the right child. When the right child has height 2 greater
             than the left child a single rotate left or a double rotate left may be applied.
             These rotations are simply mirror images of the rotations shown in Figures
             6.11 and 6.12.
                 To complete our discussion of the insertion function, we must convince
             ourselves that if it changes the height of the tree, then it increases it by
             exactly 1. This is clearly the case if no rotation is done. Let us then consider
             the rotations shown in Figures 6.11 and 6.12. If either of these rotations
             is applied, then the data item must have been inserted into the left child,
             causing its height to increase from h+1toh+2. The overall height of the tree
             had to have been h+2 prior to the insertion. Following a single rotate right,
             it is easily seen that the height is either h+2orh+3. Likewise, following a
             double rotate right, it is easily seen that the height is h+2.Thus,theresult
             of the insertion is to either leave the height unchanged or increase it by 1.
                 The insertion algorithm is shown as AVLDictionary.Insert in
             Figure 6.13. The Balance function can also be used by the deletion algo-
             rithm. The remainder of the AVLDictionary implementation, including
             the rotations, is left as an exercise. Note that the rotations must ensure
             that all height values except that of the root are correct. Speciﬁcally, the
             heights of node d in Figure 6.11 and nodes b and f in Figure 6.12 must be
             recomputed.
