                                      Storage/Retrieval I: Ordered Keys                          217
             the root of the tree by a series of double rotations, each promoting b by two
             levels. Now referring to Figure 6.12, note that the distance between the root
             and any descendant of d decreases by 1 for each rotation. The number of
             rotations is half the distance from the root to d, so each descendant of d ends
             up closer to the root by half the original distance between the root and d.
                 Unfortunately, single rotations are not as eﬀective in improving the
             structure. Notice that in Figure 6.11, nodes in subtree c do not get any
             closer to the root as a result of the rotation. As a result, we need a new kind
             of double rotation that can be applied when the node to be promoted is
             not a “zig-zag” from its grandparent. So that we might distinguish between
             the various double rotations, we will refer to the rotation of Figure 6.12 as
             a zig-zag right, and to its mirror image as a zig-zag left.Azig-zig right is
             shown in Figure 6.15. Note that by this rotation, the distance between the
             root and any descendant of a is decreased by at least 1.
                 Our representation, interpretation, and structural invariant will be the
             same as for BSTDictionary. The only diﬀerences will occur in the actual
             implementations of the operations. In fact, the implementation of VisitIn-
             Orderwill also be the same as for BSTDictionary.
                 Let us consider how we can implement a Find function. First, we observe
             that no value needs to be returned, because if the key we are looking for
             exists, we will bring it to the root of the tree. Hence, after invoking the
             Find function, the Get operation only needs to look in the root to see if the
             desired key is there. Second, we don’t want to bring a node representing an
             empty subtree to the root. For this reason, we will need to verify that a node
             is nonempty at some point before rotating it to the root. It therefore seems
             reasonable to include as part of the precondition that the tree is nonempty.
              Figure 6.15     Azig-zig right rotation
