           232                     Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
           we did for the for loop in Put, we see that its expected running time is in
           Θ(1).
               In order to complete the expected-case analysis of Put, we need to
           analyze Find. We will begin by deﬁning an appropriate discrete probability
           space. Let Seqn be the set of all n-tuples of elementary events from Seq; i.e.,
           each elementary event in Seqn is an n-tuple e ,...,e  such that each e is
                                                         1      n                  i
           a sequence of coin ﬂips containing zero or more heads, followed by exactly
           one tails. Such an n-tuple describes the “shape” of a skip list by recording,
           for each of the n data elements, the sequence of coin ﬂips which generated
           the level of the SkipListNode containing it.
               In order to show that Seqn is countable, we can label each n-tuple
           e ,...,e ∈Seqn with the natural number
             1      n
                                     plen(e1)plen(e2) ···plen(en),
                                      1     2         n
           where pi is the ith prime. Because each elementary event in Seq is uniquely
           identiﬁed by its length, and because each positive integer has a unique prime
           factorization, each tuple has a unique label; hence, Seqn is countable.
               We need to deﬁne the probabilities of elements in Seqn.Inordertodo
           this properly, we need to extend the deﬁnition of independence given in
           Section 5.5 to more than two events. We say that a          
           set S of events is pairwise independent if for every    This -notation denotes
                                                                   the product of the proba-
           pair of events e ,e ∈ S, e and e are independent.       bilities P(e) for all events
                          1  2       1       2                     e in T.
           If for every subset T ⊆ S containing at least two
           events,
                                          
                                     P       e  =     P(e),
                                         e∈T       e∈T
           then we say the events in S are mutually independent. We leave as an
           exercise to show that pairwise independence does not necessarily imply
           mutual independence, even for 3-element sets of events.
               Returning to Seqn,letlen   denote the event that
                                        ij                         In other words, the proba-
           component i has length j,for1≤ i ≤ n, j>1. In           bility that all of the events
           any set {len    ,...,len    } with 2 ≤ m ≤ n and        in T occur is the product of
                       i1j1       imjm                             the probabilities for each of
           all the i s diﬀerent, the events should be mutually     these events.
                   k
           independent. Furthermore, in order to be consistent with Seq,wewant
                       −j
           P(lenij)=2 for 1 ≤ i ≤ n and j>1. We can satisfy these constraints by
           setting the probability of elementary event e ,...,e  to the product of the
                                                        1      n
