                                      Chapter 7
             Storage/Retrieval II: Unordered Keys
          In the last chapter, we considered the problem of storage and retrieval,
          assuming that we also need to be able to access keys in a predeﬁned
          order. In this chapter, we drop this assumption; i.e., we will be considering
          implementations of Dictionary (see Figure 6.2, p. 204) rather than
          OrderedDictionary. The structures we deﬁned in the last chapter all
          utilized the ordering on the keys to guide the searches. Hence, it might seem
          that there is nothing to be gained by neglecting to keep the keys in order.
          However, we will see that disorder can actually be more beneﬁcial when it
          comestolocatingkeysquickly.
          7.1  Arrays with Virtual Initialization
          A simple implementation of Dictionary is to store all of the elements in
          an array indexed by keys. Though this approach is simple, it has several
          diﬃculties. The ﬁrst diﬃculty is in using a key as an array index. For
          example, if our keys are strings, we must somehow be able to interpret them
          as natural numbers. Another diﬃculty is that we may have no ﬁxed bound
          on the size of our keys. In this case, we would not know how large an array
          to construct. An expandable array would not yield a satisfactory solution
          because however we determine the size of the array, the next key can be so
          large that a new array must be constructed. Thus, we would have to expand
          the array each time a new key is inserted. Such an approach is clearly too
          expensive.
             In spite of these diﬃculties, there is still a theoretically interesting
          approach using keys as array indices, provided we are willing to make
          some assumptions. First, we assume that each key is a natural number
                                           245
