         256                Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
            We will assume that our keys are represented as natural numbers. This
         assumption does not result in any loss of generality, because all data types
         can be viewed as sequences of bytes, or more generally, as w-bit components.
         Wecanvieweachcomponentasanaturalnumberlessthan2w.Thesequence
         k ,...,k then represents the natural number
           1    l
                                   l
                                   w(l−i)
                                     k 2    ;
                                      i
                                  i=1
                                                            w
         thus, we view the key as encoding a natural number in radix 2 .Wemust
         realize, however, that the keys may be very large, so that they do not ﬁt in
         a single machine word.
            The basic idea of the division method is simple. For a natural number k,
         we deﬁne
                                h(k)=kmodm,
         where m is the number of array locations in the hash table. Thus, 0 ≤
         k modm<m.Thetable shown in Figure 7.3 uses the division method.
            It is not hard to show that
                     (xy +z)modm=(x(y modm)+z)modm
         (see Exercise 7.5). This relationship gives us a top-down solution to the
         problem of computing h(k)forlargek.Ifz is the last w-bit component of k,
                         w
         we can write k =2y +z,wherey is the value obtained by removing the
         component z from k.Wethenhave
                                 w
                         h(k)=(2 y+z)modm
                                 w
                             =(2(ymodm)+z)modm
                                 w
                             =(2h(y)+z)modm.
         We can therefore compute h(k) bottom-up by starting with the ﬁrst com-
                                            w
         ponent of k and repeatedly multiplying by 2 , adding the next component,
         and taking the result mod m.
            The division method is illustrated in Figure 7.7, where an implementa-
         tion of HashFunctionis presented. The representation of HashFunction
         is a Nat size, and the structural invariant is size > 0. We assume the
         existence of a function ToArray(x,w), which returns an array of Nats,
                            w
         each strictly less than 2 , and which together give a representation of x.It
         is easily seen that Index runs in time linear in the length of the key.
