                                    Storage/Retrieval II: Unordered Keys                        263
             Thus, the probability distribution of the exclusive-or of two independent
             random bits is uniform if at least one of the two has uniform probability
             distribution. We can easily conclude that the method outlined above for
             selecting a hash function results in each key mapping to any given table
             location with probability 1/m.
                 However, knowing that each key maps to any given table location with
             probability 1/m is not suﬃcient to conclude that any two keys collide with
             probability at most 1/m. Suppose, for example, that we were to select a
             hash function by randomly generating a natural number i<mwith uniform
             probability. The hash function then maps all keys to i. For any given key k,
             this strategy maps k to any given location with probability 1/m. However,
             because all keys map to the same location, the probability that two given
             keys collide is 1 for each pair of keys.
                 Before we try to prove that this family of hash functions is universal, we
             will deﬁne it more formally. In order to accommodate a formal deﬁnition,
             we must ﬁrst deﬁne a discrete probability space that will represent the set of
             hash functions. Let Sl,m be the set of all l-tuples of bit strings of length lgm,
             where l is a positive integer and m is a power of 2. Each of these l-tuples
             will represent a hash function. Note that Sl,m has ml elements. We therefore
             assign each element of Sl,m a probability of m−l; hence, Sl,m is a discrete
             probability space in which each elementary event has the same probability.
                 We can now formally deﬁne a hash function corresponding to each
             element in Sl,m.Letselect be the function that takes a sequence s =
             t ,...,t  of bit strings all having the same length, together with a bit
               1       n
             string k ···k , and returns the subsequence of s such that t is included
                      1     n                                                        i
             iﬀ k = 1. Furthermore, let X be the function that takes a sequence of bit
                 i
             strings each having the same length and returns their bitwise exclusive-or.
             Given s = t ,...,t∈S          ,leth : U → M such that
                           1       l      l,m       s
                                           h (k)=X(select(s,k)).
                                            s
                 Wenowdeﬁne
                                           H1 ={h |s∈S }.
                                             l,m       s        l,m
                                    1
             Each element h ∈H          corresponds to the event consisting of all sequences
                                    l,m
             s ∈ S    such that h = h . We leave it as an exercise to show that for each h ∈
                   l,m                  s
             H1 ,thereisexactly one such s; hence, there is a one-to-one correspondence
               l,m
             between elementary events in Sl,m and hash functions in H1 . We will now
                                                                                 l,m
                                                                                              1
             show that for every distinct k,k ∈ U, P(h(k)=h(k )) = 1/m,sothatHl,m
