          276                   Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          can then guarantee that accesses will be fast. To achieve this goal, we use a
          technique called perfect hashing.
             One of the drawbacks to hashing is that we can’t guarantee that there
          will be no collisions. In fact, we can’t even guarantee that all of keys don’t
          hashtothesamelocation. Universal hashinggives usan expectation that the
          resulting hash table will not have too many collisions. Thus, even though we
          might be unlucky and choose a hash function that yields poor performance
          on our data set, if we randomly select several diﬀerent hash functions, we
          can expect to ﬁnd one that yields a small number of collisions.
             With perfect hashing, our goal is to produce a hash table with no
          collisions. Unfortunately, as we saw in Section 7.2, unless the size of the
          hash table is much larger than the number of keys, we can expect to have
          at least one collision. With a reasonable table size, we would probably need
          to try many diﬀerent hash functions before we found one that yielded no
          collisions.
             Wecanavoid this diﬃculty, however, by employing a two-level approach
          (see Figure 7.11). Instead of using a ConsList to store all of the elements
          that hash to a certain location, we use a secondary hash table with its own
          hash function. The secondary hash tables that store more than one element
          are much larger than the number of elements they store. As a result, we
          will be able to ﬁnd a hash function for each secondary hash table such that
          no collisions occur. Furthermore, we will see that the sizes of the secondary
          hash tables can be chosen so that the total number of locations in all of the
          hash tables combined is linear in the number of elements stored.
             Let us ﬁrst determine an appropriate size m for a secondary hash table
          in which we need to store n distinct keys. We saw in Section 7.2 that in order
          for the expected number of collisions to be less than 1, if the probability that
          two keys collide is 1/m,thenm must be nearly n2. We will therefore assume
          that m ≥ n2.
             Let Hm be a c-universal family of hash functions. We wish to determine
          an upper bound on the number of hash functions we would need to select
          from Hm before we can expect to ﬁnd one that produces no collisions among
          the given keys. Let coll be the discrete random variable giving the total
          number of collisions, as deﬁned in Section 7.2, produced by a hash function
          h∈H ondistinct keys k ,...,k . As we showed in Section 7.2,
                m                 1     n
                                    n−1   n
                            E[coll]=  P(h(k)=h(k )).
                                                  i      j
                                     i=1 j=i+1
