           284                     Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
            Figure 7.13   The PerfectHash.Get operation
               Deterministic hashing yields data accesses that, in practice, run in
           amortized time proportional to the length of the key, independent of
           the number of data items in the set. This compares very well to the
           structures presented in Chapter 6, which give Θ(lgn) access times, where
           n is the number of data items in the set. In our analyses in Chapter 6,
           we did not consider the key length. Our analyses thus implicitly assumed
           that keys could be compared in constant time. Each of the structures in
           Chapter 6 require Θ(lgn) comparisons in either the worst, amortized, or
           expected case, depending on the structure. In the worst case, each of these
           comparisons requires a time proportional to the length of the key. As a result,
           the performance of deterministic hashing is usually signiﬁcantly better in
           practice than those structures given in Chapter 6. The trade-oﬀ is that hash
           tables do not permit fast access to all of the keys in a predetermined order.
               Thedivisionmethod,whichcomputesthevalueofthekey mod thetable
           size, is the most common type of hash function. In order for this method to
           work well, the table size should be a prime number that is not too close to a
           power of 2. The division method is often combined with polynomial hashing
           in order to produce a single-word index, which can then be converted to
           locations in tables of diﬀerent sizes. Polynomial hashing involves multiplying
           each component of the key by a radix raised to successively higher powers,
           retaining only those bits that will ﬁt in a single machine word. The radix r
           should use 5 to 9 bits, and should be such that r mod 8 is either 3 or 5.
               Though it works very well in practice, in the worst case, deterministic
           hashing results in accesses having a running time in Θ(n). We can achieve
           better theoretical results using universal hashing, in which a hash function is
           selected at random from a universal family of hash functions. When universal
           hashing is used, data accesses have an expected amortized running time
           proportional to the key length.
               Perfect hashing is an application of universal hashing which produces
           an ImmutableDictionary. Using the inherent randomization in universal
