          286                   Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          Exercise 7.7. Give a modiﬁed version of HashTable.Put(x,k)(seeFigure
          7.6) which uses a compression map, as described in Section 7.3. Use the
          HashFunction ADT to represent both hash functions (i.e., both the
          compression map and the function to compute the index in the hash table).
          You may need to deﬁne an additional data structure in order to save results
          of the compression map for use in rehashing (you need to be able to retrieve
          these values quickly).
          Exercise 7.8. Give an implementation of HashFunction that uses poly-
          nomial hashing, as described in Section 7.3. You may assume that the
          variable r contains an appropriate value to use as the radix, and that the
          variable w contains the number of bits in a machine word. The size should
          be the smallest power of 2 that is no smaller than the parameter given to
          the constructor. For clarity, your implementation should include the mod
          operation rather than relying on overﬂow (we don’t assume any explicit
          bounds on integer variables in our algorithms).
                                                  1
          * Exercise 7.9. Prove that for each h ∈H   there is exactly one s ∈ Sl,m
                                                  l,m
          such that h = h.[Hint: Prove that if s = s,thenh = h .Inordertodo
                     s                                    s    s
          this, it is suﬃcient to ﬁnd a k such that h (k) = h (k).]
                                                s       s
          *Exercise 7.10. Modify UniversalHash1(Figure7.8)tohandlevarying-
          length keys of unboundedlength. Use the expandable-array design pattern to
          store the randomly-generated indices. Show that when this implementation
          is used with HashTable (shown in Figures 7.5 and 7.6), the amortized
          expected running time of the Dictionary operations is in O(l), where l is
          the number of bits in the longest key in the table. You may assume that the
          actual running time of Remove(k) is proportional to the running time of
          hash.Index(k) plus the length of the ConsList at the resulting index.
          * Exercise 7.11. Complete the proof of Theorem 7.3.
          Exercise 7.12. Implement HashFunction to provide H2 .Youmay
                                                                  p,m
          assume the variable p contains a prime number larger than any key. You
          may also assume that all values will ﬁt into integer variables.
          Exercise 7.13. Implement HashFunction to provide H3 .Youmay
                                                                  p,l
          assume the variable p contains a prime number larger than w bits, where w
          is another variable. You may also assume that if a,b,andc are all natural
          numbers less than p,thenab + c will ﬁt in an integer variable; however,
          you may not assume that arbitrarily many of these values added together
          will ﬁt.
