           290                      Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
           When we then schedule the job at time slot 6, the set {6,7,8} no longer
           contains an available time slot. We therefore need to merge the set {6,7,8}
           with the set containing 5, namely, {4,5}.
               Theoperations of ﬁnding the set containing a given element and merging
           two sets are typical of many algorithms that manipulate disjoint sets. The
           operation of ﬁnding the smallest element of a given set is not as commonly
           needed, so we will ignore this operation for now; however, as we will see
           shortly, it is not hard to use an array to keep track of this information.
           Furthermore, we often need to manipulate objects other than Nats; however,
           we can always store these objects in an array and use their indices as the
           elements of the disjoint sets. For this reason, we will simplify matters by
           assuming that the elements of the disjoint sets are the Nats0..n−1. In gen-
           eral, the individual sets will be allowed to contain non-consecutive integers.
               The DisjointSets ADT, shown in Figure 8.1, speciﬁes the data
           structure we need. Each of the sets contains an element that is distinguished
           as its representative.TheFind operation simply returns that representative.
           Thus,if two calls to Find return the same result, we know that both elements
           belong to the same set. The Merge operation takes two representatives,
           combines the sets identiﬁed by these elements, and returns the resulting
           set’s representative. In this chapter, we will consider how the DisjointSets
           ADTcanbeimplemented eﬃciently. Before we do this, however, let us take
           acloserlookathowtheDisjointSets ADT can be used to implement the
           scheduling algorithm outlined above.
             Figure 8.1  The DisjointSets ADT
