           314                      Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
             Figure 9.5  Adirected acyclic graph modeling precedence relationships
           can be modeled by the directed acyclic graph shown in Figure 9.5. We need
           to ﬁnd an ordering of the vertices such that for every edge (u,v), u precedes
           v in the ordering. Such an ordering is called a topological sort of the graph.
           Examples of topological sorts of the graph in Figure 9.5 are B,A,C,D
           and B,D,A,C. In this section, we will present an algorithm for ﬁnding a
           topological sort of a given directed acyclic graph. First, we will show that
           every directed acyclic graph has a topological sort.
           Lemma9.1. Every nonempty directed acyclic graph has at least one vertex
           with no incoming edges.
           Proof.    Bycontradiction. Supposeevery vertex in some nonempty directed
           acyclic graph G has incoming edges. Then starting from any vertex, we may
           always traverse an incoming edge backwards to its source. Because G has
           ﬁnitely many vertices, if we trace a path in this fashion, we must eventually
           repeat a vertex. We will have then found a cycle — a contradiction.        
           Theorem 9.2. Every directed acyclic graph G =(V,E) has a topological
           sort.
           Proof.    By induction on the size of V.
           Base: V = ∅. Then the empty ordering is a topological sort.
           Induction Hypothesis: Suppose that for some n>0, every directed
           acyclic graph with fewer than n vertices has a topological sort.
           Induction Step: LetG =(V,E)beadirectedacyclic graphwithnvertices.
           Because G is nonempty, it must have at least one vertex v with no incoming
                                                                     0
                         
           edges. Let G be the graph obtained from G by removing v0 and all of
                                                                
           its outgoing edges. By the induction hypothesis, G has a topological sort
           v ,...,v    . Because v has no incoming edges in G, v ,...,v            must
            1       n−1            0                                   0      n−1
           therefore be a topological sort for G.                                     
