          312                   Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          Graph.AllFrom ensures that any Edge in the ConsList returned by
          this operation will have natural numbers for source and dest and a non-nil
          value for data.
             In the next two sections, we will consider two applications of the Graph
          ADT. Each of these applications will result in a graph algorithm. We will
          then examine two implementations of Graph and analyze the running
          times of their operations. We will also analyze the space usage of each
          implementation. Using these analyses, we will analyze the running times
          of the two algorithms with each of these implementations.
          9.1  Universal Sink Detection
          Our ﬁrst example is somewhat contrived, but it serves as a useful introduc-
          tion to graph algorithms. To begin, we deﬁne a sink in a directed graph
          G=(V,E)tobeavertexv with no outgoing edges. A universal sink is a
          sink v such that for every vertex u = v,(u,v) ∈ E. In this section, we will
          examine the problem of ﬁnding a universal sink in a directed graph, if one
          exists.
             We ﬁrst observe that a directed graph can have at most one universal
          sink. Let us therefore consider the related problem of returning a universal
          sink in a nonempty graph if one exists, or returning an arbitrary vertex
          otherwise. We will then reduce the universal sink detection problem to this
          variant. Suppose we consider any two distinct vertices, u and v (if there is
          only one vertex, clearly it is a universal sink). If (u,v) ∈ E,thenu cannot be
                                                         
          a sink. Otherwise, v cannot be a universal sink. Let G be the graph obtained
          by removing from G one vertex x that is not a universal sink, along with
          all edges incident on x.IfG has a universal sink w,thenw must also be a
                           
          universal sink in G . We have therefore transformed this problem to a smaller
          instance. Because this reduction is a transformation, we can implement it
          using a loop.
             In order to implement this algorithm using the Graph ADT, we need to
          generalize the problem to a subgraph of G comprised of the vertices i,...,j
          and all edges between them. If j>i, we can then eliminate either i or j
          from the range of vertices, depending on whether (i,j) is an edge. Note that
          by generalizing the problem in this way, we do not need to modify the graph
          whenweeliminate vertices — we simply keep track of i and j, the endpoints
          of the range of vertices we are considering. If there is an edge (i,j), we
          eliminate vertex i by incrementing i; otherwise, we eliminate vertex j by
          decrementing j. When all vertices but one have been eliminated (i.e., when
          i = j), the remaining vertex must be the universal sink if there is one.
