      320          Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
      runs in Θ(m) time. Note that Θ(m) ⊆ O(n). The space usage of ListGraph
      is easily seen to be in Θ(n+a), where a is the number of edges in the graph.
        Let us now revisit the analysis of the running time of TopSort (Figure
      9.6), this time assuming that G is a ListGraph. Consider the second for
      loop. Note that running time of the nested while loop does not depend on
      the implementation of G; hence, we can still conclude that it runs in O(n)
      time. We can therefore conclude that the running time of the second for
      loop is in O(n2). However, because we have reduced the running time of
      AllFromfrom Θ(n) to Θ(1), it is no longer clear that the running time of
      this loop is in Ω(n2). Indeed, if there are no edges in the graph, then the
      nested while loop will not iterate. In this case, the running time is in Θ(n).
        We therefore need to analyze the running time of the nested while
      loop more carefully. Note that over the course of the for loop, each edge
      is processed by the inner while loop exactly once. Therefore, the body of
      the inner loop is executed exactly a times over the course of the entire outer
      loop, where a is the number of edges in G. Because the remainder of the
      outer loop is executed exactly n times, the running time of the outer loop is
      in Θ(n+a).
        Wenowobservethatthefourthloopcan beanalyzed in exactly the same
      way as the second loop; hence, the fourth loop also runs in Θ(n + a)time.
      In fact, because the structure of these two loops is quite common for graph
      algorithms, this method of calculating the running time is often needed for
      analyzing algorithms that operate on ListGraphs.
        To complete the analysis of TopSort, we observe that the ﬁrst and
      third loops do not depend on how G is implemented; hence, they both run
      in Θ(n) time. The total running time of TopSort is therefore in Θ(n+a).
      For graphsin which a ∈ o(n2), this is an improvement over the Θ(n2) running
      time when G is implemented as a MatrixGraph.
        Let us now consider the impact of the ListGraph implementation on
      the analysis of UniversalSink (Figure 9.4). Due to the increased running
      time of Get, the body of the while loop runs in Θ(m) time, where m is the
      number of vertices adjacent to i. This number cannot be more than n − 1,
      nor can it be more than a. Because this loop iterates Θ(n)times,weobtain
      an upper bound of O(nmin(n,a)). Likewise, it is easily seen that the for
      loop runs in O(nmin(n,a)) time.
        To see that this bound is tight for the while loop, let us ﬁrst consider
      the case in which a ≤ n(n−1)−n/2	. Suppose that from vertex 0 there is
      an edge to each of the vertices 1,...,min(a,(n−1)/2	), but no edge to any
      other vertex. From vertices other than 0 we may have edges to any of the
