                                        Graphs                             321
          other vertices. Note that with these constraints, we can have up to n(n −
          1) −n/2	 edges. For such a graph, the ﬁrst n/2	 iterations of the while
          loop will have i = 0, while j ranges from n−1downto(n−1)/2	+1.For
          each of these iterations, Get(i,j) runs in Θ(min(a,n)) time, because there
          are Θ(min(a,n)) vertices adjacent to 0, but j is not adjacent to 0. Because
          the number of these iterations is in Θ(n), the total time is in Θ(nmin(n,a)).
             Now let us consider the case in which a>n(n−1)−n/2	.Inthiscase,
          we make sure that from each of the vertices 0,...,n/2	−1, there is an
          edge to every other vertex. Furthermore, we make sure that in each of the
          ConsLists of edges from these ﬁrst n/2	 vertices, the edge to vertex n−1
          occurs last. From the remaining vertices we may have any edges listed in any
          order. For such a graph, the ﬁrst n/2	 iterations of the while loop will have
          j = n−1, while i ranges from 0 to n/2	−1. For each of these iterations,
          Get(i,j) runs in Θ(n) time, because there are Θ(n) vertices adjacent to i,
          and n − 1 is the last of these. Because the total number of iterations is
          in Θ(n), the total time is in Θ(n2). Because a ≥ n, this is the same as
          Θ(nmin(a,n)).
             Based on the analyses of the two algorithms, we can see that neither
          implementation is necessarily better than the other. If an algorithm relies
          more heavily on Get than on AllFrom, it is better to use MatrixGraph.
          If an algorithm relies more heavily on AllFrom, it is probably better to use
          ListGraph, particularly if there is a reasonable expectation that the graph
          will be sparse — i.e., that it will have relatively few edges. Note also that
          for sparse graphs, a ListGraph will use considerably less space.
          9.5  Multigraphs
          Let us brieﬂy consider the building of a ListGraph. We must ﬁrst construct
          a graph with no edges, then add edges one by one using the Put operation.
          The constructor runs in Θ(n)time.ThePut operation runs in Θ(m)
          time, where m is the number of vertices adjacent to the source of the
          edge. It is easily seen that the time required to build the graph is in
          O(n+amin(n,a)), where a is the number of edges. It is not hard to match
          this upper boundusinggraphs in which the number of vertices with outgoing
          edges is minimized for the given number of edges. An example of a sparse
          graph (speciﬁcally, with a ≤ n) that gives this behavior is a graph whose
          edge set is
                                   {(0,j) | 1 ≤ j<a}.
