                                        Graphs                             327
          algorithm to determine whether a given directed graph is transitively closed.
          You may assume the graph is implemented as a MatrixGraph.
          Exercise 9.6. An undirected graph is said to be connected if for every pair
          of vertices u and v, there is a path of edges leading from u to v.Atree
          is a connected undirected acyclic graph. Prove each of the following for an
          undirected graph G with n vertices:
          a. If G is a tree, then G has exactly n− 1edges.
          b. If G is connected and has exactly n −1 edges, then G is a tree.
          c. If G is acyclic and has exactly n − 1 edges, then G is a tree.
          Exercise 9.7. Prove that MatrixGraph, shown in Figure 9.7, meets its
          speciﬁcation.
          Exercise 9.8. Prove that the ListGraph constructor shown in Figure 9.10
          meets its speciﬁcation.
          Exercise 9.9. Give an algorithm that takes as input a graph G and returns
          true iﬀ G is undirected; i.e., if for every edge (u,v), (v,u)isalsoanedge.
          Give the best upper bound you can on the running time, expressed as
          simply as possible using big-O notation in terms of the number of vertices
          n and the number of edges a, assuming the graph is implemented using
          MatrixGraph.
          * Exercise 9.10. An Euler path in a connected undirected graph G is a
          path that contains every edge in G exactly once. Give an eﬃcient algorithm
          to ﬁnd an Euler path in a connected undirected graph, provided one exists.
          Your algorithm should return some representation of the Euler path, or nil if
          no Euler path exists. Your algorithm should run in O(a) time, where a is the
          number of edges in G, assuming that G is implemented as a ListGraph.
          9.8  Notes
          The study of graph theory began in 1736 with Leonhard Euler’s famous
          study of the K¨onigsberg Bridge Problem [38], which is simply the problem
          of ﬁnding an Euler path in a connected undirected graph (see Exercise 9.10).
          Good references on graph theory and graph algorithms include Even [39],
          Kocay and Kreher [85], and Tarjan [112]. In the early days of electronic
          computing, graphs were typically implemented using adjacency matrices.
          Hopcroft and Tarjan [65] ﬁrst proposed using adjacency lists for sparse
          graphs. The topological sort algorithm of Section 9.2 is due to Knuth [82].
