                                       Divide and Conquer                          349
            Figure 10.6   Multiplication and division functions for use with the BigNum ADT
            deﬁned in Figure 4.18 on page 146
           functions for operating on BigNums. We leave it as an exercise to show that
           the polynomial multiplication algorithm of Section 10.1 can be adapted to
           form a BigNum multiplication algorithm that runs in Θ(nlg3) time, where
           n is the number of bits in the product. In this section and the next, we
           consider implementations of Divide.
               Let us ﬁrst consider the familiar long division     Digits (or bits) are signiﬁ-
           algorithm from elementary school. Suppose the divi-     cant if they are not to the
           denduhasmdigitsandthedivisorv hasndigits.We             left of the leftmost nonzero
                                                                   digit (or bit, respectively).
           begin by ﬁnding the smallest preﬁx of the signiﬁcant    The most signiﬁcant digit
                                                                   (or bit) is the leftmost of
           digits of u that gives us a number no smaller than v.   the signiﬁcant digits (or
                                                                   bits, respectively).
           If there is no such preﬁx, the quotient is 0. Otherwise,
           the next step is to obtain an approximation for the most signiﬁcant digit of
           the result. Let k be the number of digits in the preﬁx formed above. We
           obtain the approximation by dividing the k − n + 1 most signiﬁcant digits
           of u by the most signiﬁcant digit of v. (Note that because k will always
           be either n or n +1,k − n + 1 will be either 1 or 2.) This quotient is our
           approximation of the ﬁrst signiﬁcant digit of the result.
               Because we only used one digit of v in approximating the ﬁrst signiﬁcant
           digit of the result, this approximation may be too large. We determine
           whether this is the case by multiplying this approximation by v,then
           comparing the product with the preﬁx of u. If the product is larger, we
           repeatedly subtract 1 from the approximation and recompute the product
           until the product is no larger than the preﬁx of u. The resulting digit is the
           ﬁrst signiﬁcant digit of the result.
               Having obtained the ﬁrst signiﬁcant digit of the result, we need to
           obtain the rest of the result. We begin by subtracting the last product
