          342                 Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          randomized. Instead of choosing the pivot element randomly, they use
          heuristics, such as choosing the median of the ﬁrst, middle, and last elements.
          Such heuristics tend to choose pivot elements nearer to the median than
          those chosen randomly. Furthermore, they typically involve less overhead
          than generating a random (or pseudorandom)number.
             Because of the Θ(n2) worst-case running time and Θ(n) worst-case
          stack space usage of deterministic versions of quick sort, the most common
          implementations combine quick sort with two other sorting algorithms. In
          order to avoid the bad worst case, heap sort is typically used to handle
          subproblems in which the recursion gets too deep (see Exercise 10.10). In
          order to speed up sorting of small subproblems, insertion sort is typically
          usedtosortsmallbasecases.Themostbasiccombination ofthesealgorithms
          is called introsort.
          10.4  Selection
          In Section 1.1, we introduced the selection problem. Recall that this problem
          is to ﬁnd the kth smallest element of an array of n elements. We showed
          that it can be reduced to sorting. Using either heap sort or merge sort, we
          therefore have an algorithm for this problem with a runningtime in Θ(nlgn).
          In this section, we will improve upon this running time.
             Section 2.4 shows that the selection problem can be reduced to the Dutch
          National Flag problem and a smaller instance of itself. This reduction is
          very similar to the reduction upon which quick sort is based. Speciﬁcally, we
          choose a pivot element p and solve the resulting Dutch national ﬂag problem
          as we did for the quick sort reduction. Let r and w denote the numbers of
          red items and white items, respectively. We then have three cases:
          • If r ≥ k, we return the kth smallest red item.
          • If r<kand r+w ≥k,wereturnp.
          • If r + w<k, we return the (k −r −w)th smallest blue element.
             Due to the similarity of this algorithm to quick sort, some of the same
          problems arise in choosing the pivot element appropriately. For example, if
          we always use the ﬁrst element as the pivot, then selecting the nth smallest
          element in a sorted array of n distinct elements always results in a recursive
          call with all but one of the original elements. As we saw in Section 10.3,
          this yields a running time in Θ(n2). On the other hand, it is possible to
          show that selecting the pivot at random yields an expected running time in
          Θ(n) — the details are left as an exercise.
