          348                 Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
             Returning to Figure 10.4, and taking the number of rows to be 5, we
          see that for each two columns (ten elements) that we add, at least three
          elements are excluded from the second recursive call. For example, when
          5 ≤ n ≤ 14, at least three elements are excluded, and when 15 ≤ n ≤ 24, at
          least six elements are excluded. In general, at least 3i elements are excluded
          if 10i − 5 ≤ n ≤ 10i + 4. We need to ﬁnd the largest value of n such that
          3i<n/4, if such an n exists. If we can do so, then for all larger values of n,
          the number of elements in the second recursive call will be no more than
          3n/4. Because the number of elements must be an integer, it will then be
          bounded above by 3n/4.
             We therefore need to ﬁnd the largest i such that
                                    3i<(10i+4)/4
                                   12i<10i+4
                                     i<2.
          The largest such n is therefore 10 + 4 = 14. Then for all n ≥ 15, recurrence
          (10.5) gives an upper bound on the running time of LinearSelect.From
          Theorem 10.2, the running time is in O(n), and hence in Θ(n).
             Various performance improvements can be made to LinearSelect.For
          example, if n = 5, there is no reason to apply the Dutch national ﬂag
          algorithm after sorting the array — we can simply return A[k]. In other
          words, it would be better if the base case included n = 5, and perhaps some
          larger values as well. Furthermore, sorting is not the most eﬃcient way to
          solve the selection problem for small n. We explore some alternatives in the
          exercises.
             Even with these performance improvements, however, LinearSelect
          does not perform nearly as well as the randomized algorithm outlined at
          the beginning of this section. Better still is using a quick approximation
          of the median, such as ﬁnding the median of the ﬁrst, middle, and last
          elements, as the value of p. This approach yields an algorithm whose worst-
          case running time is in Θ(n2), but which typically performs better than even
          the randomized algorithm.
          10.5  Integer Division
          Exercise 4.14 on page 145 discussed an implementation of a BigNum ADT
          (speciﬁed in Figure 4.18, page 146) for arbitrary-precision natural numbers.
          This ADT is rather limited, in that its only arithmetic operations are
          addition and subtraction. Figure 10.6 speciﬁes multiplication and division
