           354                     Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
           Because each iteration may contain a recursive call, this suggests that there
           are a total of at most 3 recursive calls. However, note that whenever a
           recursive call is made, the dividend is no less than the divisor, so that a
           nonzero digit results in the quotient. Suppose the ﬁrst of the three digits of
           the quotient is nonzero. Because the ﬁrst n bits of u are at most v,theonly
           possible nonzero result for the ﬁrst digit is 1. The remainder of the quotient
                                                                  n
           is then formed by dividing a value strictly less than 2   by v,whichisat
                 n−1
           least 2   . This result is also at most 1, so that the second digit must be 0.
           We conclude that no more than two recursive calls are ever made. In each
           of these recursive calls, the divisor has n/2bits.
               If n is odd and greater than 1, we increase the number of bits in v by 1.
           The above reasoning then applies to n +1,wheren denotes the original
           number of bits in v. We can therefore express the overall running time in
           terms of n via the recurrence
                                   f(n) ∈ 2f(n/2)+Θ(nlg3)
           for n>1. Applying Theorem 3.35, we see that f(n) ∈ Θ(nlg3).
               Let us now turn to the more general case. If m<n, it is easily seen
           that the running time is in Θ(n). If m ≥ n, as we have already shown, the
           worst-case number of recursive calls is in Θ(m/n), and the overhead is in
           Θ(mnlg3−1). Because each of these recursive calls satisﬁes the special case
           analyzed above, each runs in Θ(nlg3) time. Thus, the overall running time
           is in Θ(mnlg3−1).
               If we wish to express the running time in terms of the number of bits in
           the larger of the two operands, it is easily seen that the worst case occurs
           when m is larger, but n isaﬁxedfractionofm.IfN denotes the number of
           bits in the larger operand, we then see that the running time is in Θ(Nlg3),
           which is asymptotically the same as multiplication. Furthermore, it is not
           hard to see that if we can improve the running time of multiplication to
           O(N1+) for any ﬁxed positive , the running time of division will also be in
           O(N1+)(orO(mn)).
               In a later chapter, we will show that the running time of multiplication
           can be improved to O(N lgN lglgN). When we use this running time, the
           recurrence for the case in which
                                                        n
                                       v ≤ u<(v+1)2,
           becomes
                               f(n) ∈ 2f(n/2)+O(nlgnlglgn)
