       364           Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
       of the original polynomials. Show that your algorithm has a running time in
       Θ(nlog35). (Note that log 5 < lg3.)
                      3
       ** Exercise 10.4. Generalize Exercise 10.3 by showing that for suﬃciently
       large n and any k ≥ 2, the product of two degree-(n−1) polynomials can be
       computed from the products of 2k −1 polynomials of degree approximately
       (n/k)−1. Using this result, show that for any  ∈ R>0, there is an algorithm
       to multiply two degree-(n −1) polynomials in O(n1+)time.
       Exercise 10.5. Adapt PolyMult to implement Multiply, as speciﬁed in
       Figure 10.6, in Θ(nlg3) time, where n is the number of bits in the product.
       Exercise 10.6. Prove that MergeSort, shown in Figure 10.2, meets its
       speciﬁcation.
       Exercise 10.7. Suppose we are given a tape containing a large number of
       Keyeditems to be sorted. The number of items is too large to ﬁt into main
       memory, but we have three additional tapes we can use, and we can rewrite
       the input tape. Give a bottom-up version of merge sort that produces the
       sorted output on one of the tapes. You may not assume that data items on
       the tapes can be accessed “randomly” — they must be accessed in sequence.
       Your algorithm must make at most O(lgn) passes through each tape.
       Exercise 10.8. Prove that QuickSort, shown in Figure 10.3, meets its
       speciﬁcation.
       Exercise 10.9. Notice that one of the recursive calls in QuickSort is
       tail recursion. Taking advantage of this fact, convert one of the recursive
       calls to iteration. Notice that the calls can be made in either order, and so
       either may be converted to iteration. Make the proper choice so that the
       resulting algorithm uses Θ(lgn) stack space in the worst case on an array of
       n elements.
       Exercise 10.10. Suppose we modify QuickSort by introducing a second
       parameter d giving the depth of recursion and a third parameter giving the
       length N of the entire array (not just the portion currently being sorted).
       Then prior to selecting the pivot element, if d ≥ 2lgN, instead of sorting
       using the given algorithm, sort A[lo..hi]usingaΘ(nlgn) algorithm such as
       heap sort or merge sort. Show that this modiﬁcation results in an algorithm
       that runs in Θ(nlgn) in the worst case, even if A[lo]isalwaysusedasthe
       pivot element.
