           380                      Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
           andanedge(w,x), where w is a vertex in T, so that the path from u to x
           in the resulting tree is a shortest path in G from u to x.
               For each vertex w in T,letd      give the length of the path from u to
                                              w
           w in T. For each edge (x,y)inG,letlen(x,y) give the length of (x,y). Let
           (w,x)beanedgeinG such that
           • w is in T;
           • x is not in T;and
           • d +len(w,x) is minimized.
               w
           Clearly, the path from u to w in T, followed by the edge (w,x) is a shortest
           path from u to x in G, as there can be no shorter paths from u to any vertex
           not in T.
               Building a shortest path tree in this way is very similar to the way
           Prim’s algorithm builds an MST. While Prim’s algorithm is for undirected
           graphs, this algorithm — Dijkstra’s algorithm — is for directed graphs. The
           computation for updating the bestCost array must use d +len(w,x), rather
                                                                    w
           than the cost of (w,x) (we assume that len(w,x) will be stored in the data
           variable for edge (w,x)). Hence, the value d   must be computed and stored
                                                       w
           as vertices are added to the tree. The resulting algorithm runs in Θ(n2)time,
           the same as for Prim’s algorithm; we leave the details as an exercise.
           11.4    Huﬀman Codes
           Compression algorithms are often used for data archival or for improving
           data transmission rates. In this section, we examine one of the key
           components of data compression. In order to simplify the discussion, we
           will assume we are dealing with character data, though the techniques apply
           more generally.
               In a typical English-language text, some characters like “e” occur much
           more frequently than other characters like “X” or “π”. It makes sense, then,
           to use a variable-width encoding when storing text in ﬁles, so that the more
           frequently occurring characters have shorter codes.
               For example, consider the popular UTF-8 encoding scheme. In this
           scheme, each possible character is encoded using a number of bytes deter-
           mined by expected character frequencies. For example, each of the English
           characters, the Arabic numerals, and common punctuation and special
           characters are encoded using one byte. Characters from other languages,
           such as Greek or Cyrillic characters, require two bytes, whereas most Chinese
