          372                 Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          11.1  Job Scheduling
          Consider the job scheduling problem discussed in Chapter 8. Recall that
          we are given n jobs, each requiring one unit of execution time and having
          its own deadline. Suppose that, in addition, each job has a positive integer
          value.Wewishtoschedulethejobsonasingleserversoastomaximizethe
          total value of those jobs which meet their deadlines. Because jobs which do
          not meet their deadlines do not contribute any value, we will assume that no
          jobs are scheduled after their deadlines — if a job can’t meet its deadline, we
          simply don’t schedule it. At this point, we are not assuming any particular
          scheduling strategy, such as the one given in Chapter 8; instead, we are
          trying to ﬁnd an optimal strategy.
             In deriving a greedy algorithm in a top-down fashion, the ﬁrst step is to
          generalize the problem so that a partial solution is given as input. We assume
          as a precondition that this partial solution can be extended to an optimal
          solution. Our task is then to extend it in some way so that the resulting
          partial solution can be extended to an optimal solution. If we characterize
          the size of such an instance as the diﬀerence between the size of a complete
          solution and the given partial solution, we will have reduced a large instance
          toasmallerinstance.
             The input to the generalized scheduling problem is a set X =
          {x ,...,x } of jobs and a partial schedule sched of these jobs. To be
            1     m
          more precise, let sched[1..n] be an array of natural numbers such that if
          sched[t] = 0, then no job has been scheduled in the time slot ending at
          time t;otherwise,ifsched[t]=i,thenjobxi is scheduled in this time slot.
          If all the jobs in X either have been scheduled or cannot be scheduled, we
          are ﬁnished — the precondition that this schedule can be extended to an
          optimal schedule implies that it must be an optimal schedule. Otherwise,
          our task is to schedule some job xi so that the resulting partial schedule can
          be extended to a schedule of maximum value. If we take the size of a partial
          schedule to be the number of unscheduled jobs in X, we will have reduced a
          large instance to a smaller instance.
             We must now decide upon the criterion to use to extend a partial
          schedule. Of the remaining jobs that can meet their deadlines, it would make
          sense to schedule the one with the highest value. Furthermore, in order to
          impact the fewest deadlines of other jobs, it would make sense to schedule it
          as late as possible. In what follows, we will show that this selection criterion
          always results in an optimal schedule.
