      386          Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
      that pred[i] gives the parent of i in the shortest paths tree; pred[u] should
      be −1.
      Exercise 11.5. Modify your algorithm from Exercise 11.4 to use a priority
      queue as suggested in Exercise 11.3. Analyze its running time assuming the
      graph is implemented as a ListGraph.
      Exercise 11.6. Suppose we wish to solve the single-source shortest path
      problem for a graph with unweighted edges; i.e., each edge is understood to
      have a length of 1. Prove that the algorithm for Exercise 11.5 can be modiﬁed
      by replacing the priority queue with a queue (see Exercise 4.11, page 144) to
      yield an algorithm for the unweighted single-source shortest path problem.
      Analyze the running time of the resulting algorithm, assuming the graph
      is implemented as a ListGraph. (This algorithm is known as breadth-ﬁrst
      search.)
      Exercise 11.7. Construct a Huﬀman tree for the string, “banana split”,
      and give its resulting encoding in binary. Don’t forget the blank character.
      Exercise 11.8. Prove that HuffmanTree,shown in Figure 11.4, meets its
      speciﬁcation.
      Exercise 11.9. Supposewe have a set of jobs, each having a positive integer
      execution time. We must schedule all of the jobs on a single server so that at
      most one job occupies the server at any given time and each job occupies the
      server for a length of time equal to its execution time. Our goal is to minimize
      the sum of the ﬁnish times of all of the jobs. Design a greedy algorithm to
      accomplish this and prove that it is optimal. Your algorithm should run in
      O(nlgn) time, where n is the number of jobs.
      Exercise 11.10. Extend the above exercise to k servers, so that each job is
      scheduled on one of the servers.
      Exercise 11.11. Suppose we are given a set of events, each having a start
      time and a ﬁnish time. Each event requires a single room. We wish to assign
      events to rooms using as few rooms as possible so that no two events in the
      same room overlap (they may, however, be scheduled “back-to-back” with
      no break in between). Give a greedy algorithm to accomplish this and prove
      that it is optimal. Your algorithm should run in O(nlgn)time.
      Exercise 11.12. Repeat the above exercise with the constraint that only
      one room is available. The goal is to schedule as many events as possible.
      Exercise 11.13. Wewishtoplanatripacross country in a car that can go d
      miles on a full tank of gasoline. We have identiﬁed all of the gas stations along
