       382           Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
       two bits per character, yielding a bit string of length 22. However, the bit
       string produced by the given encoding has length 21.
         The speciﬁc problem we wish to address in this section is that of
       producing a tree that yields a minimum-length encoding for a given text.
       We will not concern ourselves with the counting of the characters in the
       text; rather, we will assume that a frequency table has been produced and is
       provided as our input. This frequency table gives the number of occurrences
       of each character in the text. To simplify matters, we will assume that none
       of the characters in the table has a frequency of 0. Furthermore, we will not
       concern ourselves with producing the encoding from the tree; i.e., our output
       consists solely of a binary tree storing the information we need in order to
       extract each character’s code.
         Weﬁrstneedtoconsider how we can determine the length of an encoded
       string for a particular encoding tree. Note that when we decode a bit string,
       wetraverse exactly one edge in the tree for each bit of the encoding. One way
       to determine the length of the encoding is therefore to compute the number
       of times each edge would be traversed during decoding. A given edge (u,v)
       is traversed once for each occurrence of each character in the subtree rooted
       at v. For a subtree t, let us therefore deﬁne weight(t) to be the total number
       of occurrences of all characters in t. For an encoding tree T,wecanthen
       deﬁne cost(T) to be the sum of the weights of all proper subtrees of T.
       (Note that weight(T) will always be the length of the given text.) cost(T)
       then gives the length of the encoding based on T. For a given frequency
       table, we deﬁne a Huﬀman tree to be an encoding tree with minimum cost
       for that table.
         Let us now generalize the problem so that the input is a collection of
       trees, t ,...,t , each of which encodes a portion of the frequency table. We
           1   n
       assume that each character in the frequency table occurs in exactly one
       of the input trees, and that the frequency table has a Huﬀman tree that
       contains all of the input trees as subtrees. Note that if all of the trees are
       single nodes, this input is just the information from the frequency table. If
       the input consists of more than one tree, we need to merge two of the trees
       by making them the children of a new root. Furthermore, we need to be able
       to do this so that the frequency table has a Huﬀman tree containing all of
       the resulting trees as subtrees. We claim that merging two trees of minimum
       weight will produce such a tree.
       Theorem 11.3. Let T be a Huﬀman tree for a frequency table F,andlet
       t ,...,t be subtrees of T such that n>1 and each leaf of T occurs in exactly
       1    n
