           418                     Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
               In order to avoid deleting vertices from the graph, we need a mechanism
           for selecting a subgraph based on a given subset of the vertices. More
           precisely, let G =(V,E) be a (directed or undirected) graph, and let V  ⊆ V .
                                                                                
           Wedeﬁnethe subgraph of G induced by V to be G =(V ,E), where E is
           the set of edges connecting vertices from V . We therefore need a mechanism
           for selecting a subset of the vertices in the graph.
               For this purpose, we deﬁne the data structure Selector.ASelector
           represents a set of n elements numbered 0,...,n− 1, each of which is
           either selected or unselected. The constructor and operations for Selector
           are speciﬁed in Figure 13.4. It is a straightforward matter to implement
           Selector using an array of booleans so that the constructor, SelectAll,
           and UnselectAll run in Θ(n) time, where n is the number of elements
           represented, and so that the remaining operations run in Θ(1) time.
            Figure 13.4   Speciﬁcation of the Selector data structure
               Precondition: n is a Nat.
               Postcondition: Constructs a Selector of size n, all of whose elements
               are selected.
               Selector(n)
               Precondition: true.
               Postcondition: Selects all elements.
               Selector.SelectAll()
               Precondition: true.
               Postcondition: Unselects all elements.
               Selector.UnselectAll()
               Precondition: i is a Nat less than the number of elements.
               Postcondition: Selects element i.
               Selector.Select(i)
               Precondition: i is a Nat less than the number of elements.
               Postcondition: Unselects element i.
               Selector.Unselect(i)
               Precondition: i is a Nat less than the number of elements.
               Postcondition: Returns true if element i is selected, or false otherwise.
               Selector.IsSelected(i)
