                                     Network Flow and Matching                          449
                In Section 14.2, we will consider how to make good augmenting path
            choices. For now, we note that in the worst case, the loop in NetworkFlow
            can iterate M times, where M is the value of the maximum ﬂow. Assuming
            the initialization and the body of the loop are implemented to run in Θ(n+a)
            time, where n is the number of vertices and a is the number of edges in G,
            the algorithm runs in Θ(M(n + a)) time in the worst case. If we assume
            that all vertices are reachable from the source, then a ≥ n − 1, and we can
            simplify the running time to Θ(Ma).
                Before we move on to a discussion on ﬁnding augmenting paths, we note
            one additional property of the Ford–Fulkerson algorithm. As long as each
            augmenting path found is simple — and there is no reason a path-ﬁnding
            algorithm would ﬁnd a path containing a cycle — the path will not contain
            any edges to the source or any edges from the sink. The obvious consequence
            is that if the graph contains edges into the source or out of the sink, they
            will not be used. A less obvious consequence is that after such edges are
            introduced into the residual graph, they will not be used. Thus, once a ﬂow
            is added to an edge from the source or to the sink, the ﬂow on that edge will
            never be decreased.
            14.2   The Edmonds–Karp Algorithm
            We have seen that the way augmenting paths are chosen by the Ford–
            Fulkerson algorithm can signiﬁcantly impact its performance. In this section,
            we consider how to select augmenting paths in order to avoid very bad
            performance. One might suppose that we should try to select edges with
            high capacity; however, the approach we take does not even consider the
            edge capacities. Rather, we instead select a shortest augmenting path, in
            terms of the number of edges. The resulting network ﬂow algorithm is known
            as the Edmonds–Karp algorithm.
                Exercise 11.6 on page 386 outlined the breadth-ﬁrst search technique for
            ﬁndingashortestpathinΘ(n+a)time,wherenisthenumberofverticesand
            a is the number of edges. We will therefore focus on analyzing the running
            time of the Edmonds–Karp algorithm. We ﬁrst show the following lemma.
            Lemma 14.3. No iteration of the Edmonds–Karp algorithm can bring any
            vertex nearer to the source.
            Proof.    By contradiction. Let R be the residual graph at the beginning of
            an iteration, and let R be the residual graph at the end of the iteration.
            Suppose some vertex x is closer to the source u in R than in R. Speciﬁcally,
