              450                             Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
              let x be a vertex that is closest to u in R of all such vertices. There must
              be some edge on the shortest path from u to x in R that is not in R,for
              otherwise this path would also be a path from u to x in R. Speciﬁcally,
              thelastedge(w,x) on this path must have been added, for otherwise w,
              which is closer than x to u in R, would also be closer to u in R than in R.
              This means that (x,w)isonashortestaugmentingpathinR,sothatx is
              closer than w to u in R. Therefore, w is closer to u in R than in R —a
              contradiction.                                                                                    
                   Knowingthat no vertex ever gets any closer to the source over the course
              of the Edmonds–Karp algorithm, we will now prove a lemma that shows
              when a vertex must get farther away from the source. If a vertex is farther
              than n−1 edges from the source, where n is the number of vertices, then it
              must be unreachable. By Lemma 14.3, once a vertex becomes unreachable,
              it will never become reachable. This next lemma will therefore enable us to
              bound the number of iterations of the Edmonds–Karp algorithm.
              Lemma14.4. Suppose that when some vertex x is at a distance d from the
              source u, the Edmonds–Karp algorithm removes an edge (x,y). Suppose that
              later this edge is added again. Then after this edge is added, the distance
              from u to x is at least d +2.
              Proof.       If  (x,y) is removed, then this edge must be on a shortest
              augmenting path. Then before this edge is removed, the distance from u to y
              is d+1.When(x,y) is added again, (y,x) must be on a shortest augmenting
              path. From Lemma 14.3, the distance from u to y is still at least d+1when
              this path is found. The distance to x is therefore at least d+2. From Lemma
              14.3, the distance from u to x must still be at least d+2 after the edge (x,y)
              is added.                                                                                         
              Theorem14.5. In the worst case, the Edmonds–Karp algorithm iterates no
              more than na times, where n is the number of vertices and a is the number
              of edges in G.
              Proof.       Because a ﬂow equal to the minimum edge capacity on a shortest
              augmenting path is added by each iteration, each iteration removes at least
              one edge. By Lemmas 14.3 and 14.4, no edge can be removed more than
              n/2 times. When edges are added, they are always added in the opposite
              direction of an existing edge; hence, at most 2a distinct edges ever appear
              in the residual graph. The loop can therefore iterate at most na times.                           
                   If the initialization and the body of the loop are implemented to run in
              Θ(n+a)time,wecanconcludethat thealgorithm runsin O(na(n+a)) time
