          460                 Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          ﬁrst won’t help either. Furthermore, using breadth-ﬁrst search won’t help
          because it will process just as many edges when no augmenting path exists.
          On the other hand, this algorithm is not the most eﬃcient one known for
          this problem. In the exercises, we explore how it might be improved.
             Although the optimizations we made over a direct reduction to network
          ﬂow did not improve the asymptotic running time of the algorithm, the
          resulting algorithm may have other advantages. For example, suppose we are
          trying to match jobs with job applicants. Each applicant may be qualiﬁed
          for several jobs. We wish to ﬁll as many jobs as possible, but still assign
          jobs so that priority is given to those who applied earlier. If we process the
          applicants in the order in which they applied, we will obey this priority.
          14.4  Summary
          The network ﬂow problem is a general combinatorial optimization problem
          to which many other problems can be reduced. Although the Ford–Fulkerson
          algorithm can behave poorly when the maximum ﬂow is large in comparison
          to the size of the graph, its ﬂexibility makes it useful for those cases in which
          the maximum ﬂow is known to be small. For cases in which the maximum
          ﬂow may be large, the Edmonds–Karp algorithm, which is simply the Ford–
          Fulkerson algorithm using breadth-ﬁrst search to ﬁnd augmenting paths,
          performs adequately.
             Thebipartite matching problem is an example of a problem which occurs
          quite often in practice and which can be reduced to network ﬂow to yield a
          reasonably eﬃcient algorithm. Furthermore, a careful study of the reduction
          yields insight into the problem that leads to a more general algorithm.
          14.5  Exercises
          Exercise 14.1. Prove Equation (14.1) on page 442. [Hint: Show by
          induction that the net ﬂow out of any set of vertices including the source
          but not the sink is equal to the left-hand side.]
          Exercise 14.2. Prove that NetworkFlow, shown in Figure 14.3, meets
          its speciﬁcation.
          Exercise 14.3. Implement CopyGraph, speciﬁed in Figure 14.3, to return
          a ListGraph and run in O(n+a) time, where n is the number of vertices
          and a is the number of edges in the given graph.
