         480                 Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
            Weﬁrst observe that for x ∈ S and n ∈ N, we can deﬁne xn as follows:
                                  ⎧
                                  ⎨
                               n    1ifn=0
                              x =
                                  ⎩ n−1
                                    xx     otherwise.
         Hence, the deﬁnition of a principal nth root of unity makes sense for R.
         Furthermore, the deﬁnition of a discrete Fourier transform also makes sense
         over this ring. The following theorem states that some familiar properties of
         exponentiation must hold for any ring with unit element; its proof is left as
         an exercise.
         Theorem 15.6. Let R be any ring with unit element. Then the following
         properties hold for any x in R and any m,n ∈ N :
         a. xmxn = xm+n.
             m n    (mn)
         b. (x ) = x    .
            Theorem 15.1 can be shown using only the properties given in the
         deﬁnition of a ring, together with Theorem 15.6. It therefore applies to
         R. The derivations of Equations (15.1) and (15.2) use the properties of a
         ring, together with commutativity, so that they also hold for R. The proof
         of Theorem 15.2 applies for arbitrary rings with unit elements, so equation
         (15.3) holds for R. The algorithm Fft therefore can be used to compute a
         DFT over R,providedω is a principal nth root of unity for that ring, and
         that addition and multiplication on elements of the ring are the + and ·
         operations from R.
            In order to extend Theorem 15.3 to R, we must consider what it would
         mean to divide by n in that ring. First of all the ring might not contain n as
         an element. However, we can always embed the integers into a ring with unit
         element as follows. First, if the ring has a unit element 1, it also contains
         −1 (the additive inverse of 1) and 0 (the additive identity). For n>1, if
         n−1isinthering,wecangivetheelement(n−1)+1 the name n,andwe
         can give the element −(n−1)−1 the name −n. Thus, each integer refers to
         some element of the ring. Note that a particular element of the ring might
         not correspond to any integer, or it might correspond to more than one. If
         it does correspond to more than one integer, it is not hard to show that it
         corresponds to inﬁnitely many integers.
            Now that we have identiﬁed n with some element in the ring, we can
         deﬁnedivision by n as multiplication by n−1,providedn has a multiplicative
         inverse. We note that if ω is a principal nth root of unity, then ωωn−1 =1,
         so that ω−1 = ωn−1. Then the proof of Theorem 15.3 can easily be seen to
