                                    * The Fast Fourier Transform                       485
           l = k/b is also a power of 2. Because k must also be a power of 2, we can
           satisfy this inequality by taking k ≥ 4l,providedlgb +1≤ 2l.
               In order to make k as small as possible and still at least max(b,4l), we
           should choose b and 4l to be roughly equal. If k is an even power of 2, we
                       √               √
           can set l =   k/2andb=2 k.Inthiscase, both will be powers of 2, and we
           can set k = b =4l. Otherwise, we can set l = k/2andb = √2k. Again,
           both are powers of 2, and in this case we can set k =4l.Furthermore,itis
           easily seen that for these choices, lgb +1≤ 2l whenever k ≥ 16.
               Finally, the computation of the negative wrappedconvolution will involve
           arithmetic, including multiplication, over the ring we choose. Thus, this
           computation will be reduced to modular multiplication. In order to avoid
           a circular reduction, we must make sure we choose k <k. It is easily seen
           that when k ≥ 16, this constraint is satisﬁed.
               The reduction of modular multiplication to a negative wrapped con-
           volution is shown in Figure 15.4. For the base case, it uses some other
           multiplication algorithm satisfying the spec given in Figure 10.6. It uses a
                                                  k
           function ToRing to apply the mod 2 +1 operation. It also uses a function
           Eval,whichcoverts thenegative wrappedconvolution into the productmod
             k
           2 +1. We will consider the design of these two functions shortly.
               The NegConv function can now be implemented by directly applying
           Theorem 15.8. Its implementation is shown in Figure 15.5. In order to
           multiply a BigNum x by ψj, which is a power of 2, we shift x to the right
           by jlgψ bits. We use the variable lgPsi to store the value lgψ.
               NegConvusesthefunction PosConv,whose implementation is shown
           in Figure 15.6. This algorithm is simply a modiﬁcation of Convolution
           for the modular ring; however, because the precondition requires that n
           is a power of 2, we don’t need to copy the elements to arrays of such a
           size. In order to facilitate multiplication by n−1,weusethevariablelgInv to
           store lg(n−1). Also, recall that the precondition for ModMult (Figure 15.3)
           requires that each argument is at most k bits. However, the discrete Fourier
                                                         k
           transforms may contains elements equal to 2 , which has k+1 bits. We must
           therefore handle this case separately.
                                                                                     2k/n
               TheprincipalnthrootofunityusedforcomputingtheDFTwillbe2                   .
           For computing the inverse DFT, we therefore must use the multiplicative
                        2k/n            2k        k              2k/n −1     2k−2k/n
           inverse of 2     . Because 2   mod(2 +1)=1,(2             )   =2          .For
           reasons of eﬃciency and ease of analysis, we use a boolean to indicate which
           of these roots the function ModFft is to use.
               The implementation of ModFft is shown in Figure 15.7. It is a fairly
           straightforward adaptation of Fft (Figure 15.1) to the ring Zm,+,·.We
