          508                 Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          deciding X.ItisthissetP that we will consider to be the set of eﬃciently
          solvable decision problems.
             The decision to deﬁne P using only deterministic algorithms is rather
          arbitrary. Indeed, there is a branch of computational complexity theory
          that focuses on eﬃcient randomized algorithms. However, the study of
          deterministic algorithms is more fundamental, and therefore is a more
          reasonable starting point for us.
             Asoneﬁnalnote on the set P, we should emphasize that we are focusing
          on worst-case running time. This focus sometimes is too pessimistic in
          practice. For example, we have already seen from Theorem 7.1 that in the
          worst case, a hash table provides lookups in Θ(n) time, but that in practice
          the lookups tend to run in Θ(1) time. Likewise, there are problems for which
          no known algorithm runs in polynomial time in the worst case, but because
          the worst case occurs so rarely, practical algorithms exist. We discuss this
          issue further in Section 16.11.
          16.3  The Set NP
          Sat is clearly a decision problem, but as we have suggested, it is currently
          not known whether or not it belongs to P. In this section, we will deﬁne a
          related set called NP that includes all of P, but also includes Sat,aswell
          as many other problems not known to be in P.Furthermore,NP will have
          the property that if Sat is, in fact, in P,thenP = NP.
             In order to extend the deﬁnition of P to include problems like Sat,we
          need to formalize the idea that each element of a decision problem X has
          a short proof which can be eﬃciently checked. For the sake of concreteness,
          let us assume that all proofs will be encoded as bit strings. We then denote
          the set of all bit strings by B.
             We now deﬁne NP to be the set of all decision problems X for which
          there exist:
          • a polynomial p(n); and
          • a decision problem Y ⊆ I ×B,whereI is the set of instances for X;
          such that
          • Y ∈P;
          • for each x ∈ I, x ∈ X iﬀ there is a proof φ ∈Bsuch that (x,φ) ∈ Y;and
          • for each x ∈ X, there is a proof φ ∈Bsuch that (x,φ) ∈ Y and |φ|≤p(|x|).
