            504                      Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
            There are two questions we might ask regarding F:
            • Is F valid? That is, does F evaluate to true for every possible assignment
              of true or false to the variables in F?
            • Is F satisﬁable? That is, does there exist some assignment of true or false
              to the variables in F so that F evaluates to true?
                For example, let F = ¬x∨(y ∧x). This expression is not valid, because
            setting x to true and y to false yields
                                 ¬true∨(false∧true)=false∨false
                                                       =false.
            However, F is satisﬁable — in fact, any other assignment of values to x and
            y makes F true.
                Note that it follows immediately from the deﬁnitions of validity and
            satisﬁability that for any expression F, F is valid iﬀ ¬F is unsatisﬁable.
            Because of this duality, we will focus on only one of these problems, the
            satisﬁability problem. We would like to ﬁnd a satisﬁability algorithm whose
            worst-case running time is bounded by some polynomial in the size of
            the given expression, where the size is deﬁned to be the total number of
            occurrences of variables and operators. However, as of this writing, no such
            algorithm has been found. Indeed, as we will see shortly, there is good reason
            to believe that no such algorithm is possible. On the other hand, there
            currently exists no proof that such an algorithm is impossible.
                Before we look at the satisﬁability problem in more detail, let us ﬁrst
            consider a simpler problem, that of evaluating a boolean expression F,given
            boolean values for its variables. We ﬁrst observe that F must be of one of
            the following forms:
            • a single variable;                   ¬F ;
            • the negation of an expression, i.e.,    1
            • the or of two expressions, i.e., F ∨F;or
                                                1    2
            • the and of two expressions, i.e., F ∧F.
                                                  1    2
                It is therefore convenient to represent the formula using a binary tree
            in which the leaves represent variables and the internal nodes represent
            operators. For the ¬ operator, the right-hand child will always be empty.
            To make this representation more concrete, we can use special constants
            not, and,andor to represent the three operators, and we can represent the
            variables using positive integers. In order to avoid unnecessary complications,
            we will assume that if j represents a variable in the expression, then for
