                                        NP-Completeness                             505
            Figure 16.1   Binary trees representing the formula ¬x ∨(y ∧ x)
                                       ∨                  or
                                   ¬       ∧         not      and
                                x       y     x    121
           1 ≤ i ≤ j, i represents some variable in the expression (note, however,
           that we cannot apply this assumption to arbitrary subtrees). For example,
           Figure 16.1 shows the tree representing the formula ¬x ∨ (y ∧ x), ﬁrst in a
           more abstract form, then in a more concrete form using 1 to represent x and
           2torepresenty. Finally, we can represent an assignment of truth values to
           the variables using an array A[1..n] of boolean values, where A[i]givesthe
           value assigned to the variable represented by i.
               Given an expression tree for F and an array representing an assignment
           of truth values, we can then evaluate F using BoolEval,shownin
           Figure 16.2. It is not hard to see that this algorithm runs in Θ(m)time,
           where m is the number of operators in F (note that the number of leaves in
           the expression tree can be no more than m+1).
               Returningtothesatisﬁability problem,we now point out some character-
           istics that this problem has in common with the other problems we will study
           in this chapter. First, it is a decision problem — the output is either “yes”
           or “no”. Second, when the answer is “yes”, there is a relatively short proof
           of this fact — an assignment of truth values that satisﬁes the expression.
           Third, given a proposed proof of satisﬁability (i.e., some assignment of truth
           values to the variables), we can eﬃciently verify whether it does, in fact,
           prove the satisﬁability of the expression. However, ﬁnding such a proof, or
           proving that none exists, appears to be an expensive task in the worst case
                                 n
           (note that there are 2 possible assignments of truth values to n variables).
           16.2    The Set P
           We have suggested that the boolean satisﬁability problem may not be
           eﬃciently solvable. However, we have not yet formalized what this means.
           In this section we will deﬁne a set of decision problems that we will consider
           to be those that are eﬃciently decidable.
