        528              Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
        It follows that S is a matching iﬀ the sum of its corresponding weights is
                                3m−1
                                        i
                            M=      (n+1),
                                 i=0
        whichinradixn+1 is simply 3m 1s.
           In order to complete the construction, we need two more weights. Let
        C denote the sum of the n weights constructed so far. We construct the
        following two weights:
                              A=2C−M
        and
                               B=C+M.
           Thus, the sum of all n +2weightsis4C. Because A + B =3C>2C,
        Aand B cannot belong to the same subset in a partition. Furthermore, the
        subset containing A must also contain items corresponding to elements of W
        having total weight M. Because these elements must form a matching, the
        weights we have constructed contain a partition iﬀ W contains a matching.
           To see that the time needed to construct the instance of Part is
        polynomial in the size of the instance of 3DM,weﬁrstobservethat
                                 3m−1
                                         i
                           2C ≤2    n(n+1)
                                 i=0
                                     3m
                              <2(n+1) .
        Therefore, each weight constructed has a binary encoding with no more than
        1+3mlg(n+1) bits. Because addition, subtraction, multiplication, and
        exponentiation can all be performed in a time polynomial in the number
        of bits in their operands (see Exercise 4.14, Section 10.1, Exercise 10.25,
        and Sections 15.3–15.4), the construction can clearly be performed in time
        polynomial in the size of the instance of 3DM. We therefore have the
        following theorem.
        Theorem 16.15. Part is NP-hard.
        Note that in the above construction, the weights can become extremely large,
        though their lengths are all polynomial in the size of the instance of 3DM.
        It is not too hard to imagine that we might want to solve the partition
        problemfor a large number of weights — thousands or perhapseven millions.
        However, when numbers represent physical quantities — including time —
