            526                      Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
            we include ¬x ,a ,b  for 1 ≤ i ≤ n.Thus,eacha            and b    is included
                            i  xi  xi                                xi      xi
            exactly once. Then for clause i, because A is a satisfying assignment there
            is at least one literal α   that is true in A. Because α     has not yet been
                                     ij                               ij
            included in M, we can include the triple α ,c,d in M.Thus,M includes
                                                         ij  i  i
            each c and d exactly once.
                  i       i
                At this point M includes no item more than once, but does not include
            any of the e sorf s. Furthermore, because exactly mn+n of the x sand¬x s
                        i     i                                                 i         i
            have been included, (m−1)n have not yet been included. Let β ,...,β
                                                                             1       (m−1)n
            denote the xisand¬xis that have not yet been included. We complete M
            by including β ,e,f for 1 ≤ i ≤ (m−1)n. It is now easily seen that M is
                            i  i  i
            a matching.                                                                   
            16.7   Partitioning and Strong NP-Completeness
            In this section, we will look at partitioning problems related to the 0-1
            knapsack problem of Section 12.4. These are the ﬁrst NP-complete problems
            wewill have seen in which numbers play a signiﬁcant role. As we will see, the
            NP-completeness of a number problem does not always imply intractability.
            For this reason, we will introduce a stronger notion of NP-completeness.
                The most basic partitioning problem consists of a set of items, each
            having a positive integer weight. The problem is to decide whether the items
            can be partitioned into two disjoint subsets having identical total weight.
            More formally, let w ,...,w denote the weights of the items. We wish to
                                  1       n
            decide whether there is a subset S ⊆{1,...,n} such that
                                           wi=wi.
                                           i∈S       i∈S
            The problem is known as the partition problem,orPart. We leave it as an
            exercise to show that Part ∈NP. We will show that Part is NP-hard,
            and therefore NP-complete.
                Before showing the NP-hardness of Part, however, we ﬁrst observe that
            this problem is a special case of the 0-1 knapsack problem in which the values
            are equal to the weights and the weight bound W is half the total weight. In
            Section 12.4, we sketched an algorithm to solve this problem in O(nW)time.
            Clearly, this same algorithm can be applied to Part. This would seem to
            imply that Part ∈P, so that showing Part to be NP-hard would amount
            to showing P = NP.
                However, the O(nW) algorithm does not prove that Part ∈P.The
            reason is that we have deﬁned P to be the set of decision problems that
