         532                Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
         • For any weight constructed from xi ∈ X, we assign i+1 to the ﬁrst digit
           and 0 to the second and third digits.
         • For any weight constructed from yj ∈ Y, we assign j + 1 to the second
           digit and 0 to the ﬁrst and third digits.
         • For any weight constructed from z ∈ Z, we assign k+1 to the third digit
                                      k
           and0totheﬁrsttwodigits.
         • For a triple x ,y ,z , we assign the ﬁrst three digits the values 2m − i,
                      i  j k
           2m−j,and2m−k,respectively.
         B will therefore have 2m +1 as each of its three low-order digits.
            Note that because each weight constructed from a triple has a value of
         at least m + 1 in each of its three low-order digits, no two of these weights
         can be grouped together. Furthermore, because all three low-order digits of
         any weight constructed from an element of X ∪Y ∪Z have values no more
         than m, and at least two of these values are 0, in order to reach a sum of
         Bwith only four weights, at least one must correspond to a triple. Thus, in
         any 4-partition, each group must contain exactly one weight corresponding
         to a triple, and the other three weights must correspond to the elements of
         that triple.
            We will use the fourth digit to enforce the constraint that for any four
         items grouped together, the items corresponding to elements from X∪Y ∪Z
         are either all matching items or all non-matching items. We therefore assign
         the fourth digits as follows:
         • for each matching item: 1;
         • for each non-matching item from X ∪Y:0;
         • for each non-matching item from Z:3;and
         • for each item from W:0.
         The fourth digit of B will therefore be 3. Furthermore, because any group
         must have one item from each of W, X, Y,andZ, it must contain either
         three matching items or three non-matching items. Setting the digits in this
         way therefore ensures that the set of weights has a 4-partition iﬀ W contains
         a matching.
            Finally, in order to ensure that each weight is greater than B/5andless
         than B/3, we set the ﬁfth digit of all weights to 1. As a result, the ﬁfth digit
         of B is 4. We will see that by choosing r to be suﬃciently large, all weights
         will be within the proper range.
            To summarize, for a triple x ,y ,z ,wehavetheweight
                                   i j  k
                        r4 +(2m−k)r2+(2m−j)r+2m−i.
