                                    Chapter 17
                     Approximation Algorithms
          In Chapter 16, we examined decision problems that appear to be intractable.
          As we might expect, there are other types of problems that are also
          intractable. For example, consider the following version of the vertex cover
          problem (cf. Section 16.5). Instead of being given a target size as input,
          we are given simply an undirected graph from which we must ﬁnd a vertex
          cover of minimum size. Let us call this optimization problem VCOpt.We
          can easily reduce VC to VCOpt, though because an optimization problem is
          not a decision problem, the reduction is not a many-one reduction. However,
          it is clear that if VCOpt has a polynomial-time solution, then so does VC.
          We can therefore conclude that unless P = NP, VCOpt cannot be solved
          in polynomial time.
             With hard optimization problems, however, it may not be necessary to
          obtain an exact solution. In this chapter, we will explore techniques for
          obtaining approximate solutions to hard optimization problems. We will see
          that for some problems, we can obtain reasonable approximation algorithms.
          On the other hand, we will use the theory of NP-completeness to show
          limitations to these techniques. Before looking at speciﬁc problems, however,
          we must ﬁrst extend some of the deﬁnitions from Chapter 16 to include
          problems other than decision problems.
          17.1  Polynomial Turing Reducibility
          In this section, we will extend the deﬁnition of NP-hardness to include
          problems that are not decision problems. As we have already observed, we
          can reduce VC to VCOpt in a way that proves that VCOpt cannot be
          solved in polynomial time unless P = NP; however, this reduction is not a
                                         555
