                         Approximation Algorithms       561
        each packing using the greedy algorithm. (If there are fewer than k items,
        we simply do an exhaustive search and return the optimal solution.) The
        proof is a straightforward generalization of the proof of Theorem 17.3 — the
        details are left as an exercise.
          It is not hard to see that the algorithm outlined above can be
        implemented to return a solution in Θ(nk+1)time.Ifk is a ﬁxed constant,
        the running time is polynomial. We therefore have an inﬁnite sequence of
        algorithms, each of which is polynomial, such that if an approximation ratio
        of 1 +  is needed (for some positive ), then one of these algorithms will
        provide such an approximation. Such a sequence of algorithms is called a
        polynomial approximation scheme.
          Although each of the algorithms in the above sequence is polynomial
        in the length of the input, it is somewhat unsatisfying that to achieve an
        approximation ratio of 1+1, arunningtimeinΘ(nk+1)isrequired.Wewould
                         k
        be more satisﬁed with a running time that is polynomial in both n and k.
        More generally, suppose we have an approximation algorithm that takes as
        an extra input a natural number k such that for any ﬁxed k, the algorithm
        yields an approximation ratio of no more than 1 + 1. Suppose further that
                                           k
        this algorithm runs in a time polynomial in k and the length of its input.
        We call such an algorithm a fully polynomial approximation scheme.
          We can obtain a fully polynomial approximation scheme for the 0-1
        knapsack problem using one of the dynamic programming algorithms
        suggested in Section 12.4. The algorithm based on recurrence (12.5) on page
        399 runs in Θ(nV) time, where n is the number of items and V is the sum
        of their values. We can make V as small as we wish by replacing each value
        v by v/d	 for some positive integer d. If some of the values become 0,
        we remove these items. Observe that because we don’t change any weights
        or the weight bound, any packing for the new instance is a packing for the
        original. However, because we take the ﬂoor of each v/d,theoptimalpacking
        for the new instance might not be optimal for the original. The smaller we
        make d, the better our approximation, but the less eﬃcient our dynamic
        programming algorithm.
          In order to determine an appropriate value for d, we need to analyze the
        approximation ratio of this approximation algorithm. Let S be some optimal
        set of items. The optimal value is then
                             V∗ =vi.
                                 i∈S
