                              Approximation Algorithms                575
             We claim that if x ≥ k3, the maximum cut for G partitions the vertices
         so that each group forms a cluster. To see this, ﬁrst note that when we
         partition G in this way, the resulting cut includes exactly those edges with
         weight x. Because the sum of all other edges is less than x, the maximum cut
         must contain all of the edges with weight x. Note that connecting any two of
                            2
         the vertices 0,k,...,k −k is an edge with weight x; hence, a maximum cut
         must place all of these k vertices into diﬀerent clusters. Then for 0 ≤ i<k
                                                                       
         and 1 ≤ j<k, there is an edge of weight x between vertex ik + j and i k
                 
         for each i 
= i.Asaresult,vertexik +j must be placed in the same cluster
         as vertex ik. Hence, the maximum cut partitions the vertices so that each
         group forms a cluster.
             Now consider the behavior of MaxCut on G. It will ﬁrst place vertices
         0,1,...,k− 1 into diﬀerent clusters. Then vertex k is adjacent to exactly
         onevertexineachoftheclustersviaanedgewithweightx. Because placing
         k in any of the clusters would increase the weight of that cluster by x, k is
         placed in the ﬁrst cluster with vertex 0. Placing k + 1 in this cluster would
         increase its weight by x+1; however, placing k+1 in any other cluster would
         increase that cluster’s weight by only x.Asaresult,k + 1 is placed in the
         second cluster with vertex 1. It is easily seen that the algorithm continues
         by placing vertices into clusters in round-robin fashion, so that each cluster
         ultimately contains exactly one vertex from each group.
             We can use symmetry to help us to evaluate the approximation ratio
         of MaxCut on G. In the maximum cut, each vertex is adjacent to (k −
         1)k vertices in other clusters via edges whose weights are all x.Inthecut
         produced by MaxCut, each vertex is also adjacent to (k − 1)k vertices in
         other clusters; however, only (k−1)2 of these edges have weight x, while the
         remaining edges each have weight 1. The approximation ratio is therefore
                              (k −1)kx    =     kx     ,
                           (k −1)2x+k−1     (k −1)x+1
         which approaches
                                   k   =1+ 1
                                  k−1       k −1
         as x approaches ∞. The bound of Theorem 17.8 is therefore tight.
             Let us now analyze the approximation ratio for MaxCut as an
         approximation algorithm for the minimum cluster problem. Again we can
         use symmetry to simplify the analysis. In the optimal solution, each vertex
         is adjacent to k −1 vertices in the same cluster via edges whose weights are
         all 1. In the solution given by MaxCut, each vertex is adjacent to k − 1
