          578                 Algorithms: A Top-Down Approach
          17.7  Exercises
          Exercise 17.1. Give an approximation algorithm that takes an instance of
          the knapsack problem and a positive integer k and returns a packing with
          an approximation ratio of no more than 1 + 1. Your algorithm must run in
                                                k
          O(nk+1) time. Prove that both of these bounds (approximation ratio and
          running time) are met by your algorithm.
          Exercise 17.2. Suppose we were to modify the knapsack problem to allow
          as many copies as we wish of any of the items. Show that the greedy
          algorithm yields an approximation ratio of no more than 2 for this variation.
          Exercise 17.3. The best-ﬁt algorithm for bin packing considers the items
          in the given order, always choosing the largest-weight bin in which the item
          will ﬁt. Show that the approximation ratio for this algorithm is no more
          than 2.
          ** Exercise 17.4. Let  be any ﬁxed positive real number. Demonstrate
          how dynamic programming can be combined with the ﬁrst-ﬁt-decreasing
          algorithm to obtain a pseudopolynomial-time approximation algorithm for
          bin packing with approximation ratio no more than 11 +.Youmayusethe
                                                       9
          fact that the ﬁrst-ﬁt-decreasing algorithm always produces a packing using
          at most 11B∗ + 2 bins, where B∗ is the minimum number of bins possible.
                 9      3
          * Exercise 17.5.
          a. Prove that NotAllEqual-3-Sat ≤pp k-Cluster for each ﬁxed k ≥ 2,
                                            m
            so that, from the result of Exercise 16.6, k-Cluster is NP-hardinthe
            strong sense for k ≥ 2.
          b. Prove that Cluster is strongly NP-complete.
          * Exercise 17.6. Give an approximation algorithm with approximation
          ratio bounded by 2 for the problem of ﬁnding a minimum-sized vertex
          cover. Your algorithm should run in O(n + a) time, assuming the graph
          is implemented as a ListGraph. Prove both the approximation ratio and
          the running time.
          * Exercise 17.7.
                                                           2     2   
          a. Given an undirected graph G =(V,E), we deﬁne G =(V ,E)such
            that for u = u ,u  and v = v ,v  in V 2, {u,v}∈E iﬀ for every i,
                          1  2           1 2
            1 ≤ i ≤ 2, either u = v or {u ,v}∈E. Prove that the size of the largest
                            i   i     i i
                      2   2
            clique in G is k ,wherek is the size of the largest clique in G.
